Title and Requirements	Details
Hello	 I am Astrologist Mona Megistus, meaning "The Great Astrologist Mona." If it is divination you seek from me, then I ask you respect my name by learning it wholly, here and now.
Chat: Astrology	 Divination is about precisely foretelling one's written destiny. Over-embellishing that fate only leads to misconception.
Chat: Life	 Astrologers must rid themselves of material desires. Only by ridding oneself of clutter can one see the true world around them.
Chat: Fate	 Fate is called as such, for it cannot be changed, nor can it be reversed. It can only but be accepted.
When It Rains	 With rain this heavy, not only are the stars clouded, so too is my scryglass hazy.
When Thunder Strikes	 Which of the starry skies do these thunderbolts fall from?
When It Snows	 The pure waters of melted snow are optimal for hydromancy.
When the Sun Is Out	 One need not scry to know today's weather will be good.
Good Morning	 Your arrival is untimely. The morning star has just waned... Breakfast? No, I—I've already eaten.
Good Afternoon	 Noon is upon us, we should eat. Hm? I... I will have a salad, for simplicity is the way of the astrologer.
Good Evening	 Nightfall has arrived. I will soon be able to begin my divination. Ah... Did I finish writing my astrology column last night...?
Good Night	 It's already so late, and I'm no further along on finishing tomorrow's astrology column. What? You're off to sleep? *sigh* I wish I could sleep now too...
About Mona	 The work of the astrologer is to show people what fate has in store for them, and that's exactly what I do. There will always be those, however, who are unable to accept what they are told.
About Us: Work	 Why do I write reports, rather than using my divination to earn Mora? I would never use hydromancy for the sake of Mora, nor did I learn hydromancy for that purpose.
About Us: My Fate
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 6
 I don't know. Unless left with no other choice, astrologers do not foretell their own fate. The elders of my art warned against it, for it can turn fate in on itself, which is incredibly dangerous.
About Us: Your Fate
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 6
 As you are not from this world, I am unable to give you a prediction. All I can tell you is that your journey is far from over.
About the Vision: Disdain
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 3
 When I first received my Vision, the elderly woman that gave it to me, she put on this air and said "May your heart of truth be with you." And yet this thing does nothing for my hydromancy, all it does is get me wet.
About the Vision: Value
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 5
 That said, a Vision doesn't hurt to have as a little accessory. It is, after all, the one useful study tool that miserly old lady ever gave me, in a rare act of generosity.
Something to Share
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 6
 Do you know about constellations? Astrologers believe that the patterns of the stars map out the destiny of Vision bearers — past, present, and future, everything is written in the stars.
Interesting Things
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 This... travel companion of yours — do you know anything of her origins? No matter what, I cannot seem to discern a single shred of information regarding this floating fairy's fate. ...Oh? So you don't know where she comes from, either?
About Jean
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 You mean the Acting Grand Master of the Knights of Favonius? Her constellation is Leo Minor, which represents strength and responsibility shouldered too young... Though the lioness has been separated from her pride for a long time, she grows from strength to strength, and the day will come when she is ready to return as its glorious leader.
About Albedo
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 Albedo? Ah... I envy his ability to solely focus on his research without getting bogged down in mundane worldly affairs. What a wonderful life! If that batty old lady hadn't had one too many screws loose, perhaps that's the life I'd be living by now myself...
About Klee
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 Ah yes, Alice's daughter. She's in the custody of the Knights of Favonius, and Albedo looks after her too. She's blessed to have Trifolium as her constellation, which represents good luck. I'm slightly envious... *smirk*
Although, if I'd been blessed with good luck, I suppose I never would have had the great honor of running into that old woman, would I...
About Diluc
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 Diluc Ragnvindr. His constellation, Noctua, represents vigilance in the darkness of night... A lone guardian keeping watch, longing for the splendor of dawn, yet destined to solitude in the dark days preceding its arrival.
...Or, wait, maybe Noctua's the one tied to wealth...?
About Kaeya
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 Kaeya Alberich? He's a Pavo Ocellus. Destined for greatness and grandeur... and to hide ugly realities behind a layer of charm and elegance. He believes he has made a clean break with his past, but one day fate will catch up with him. When it does, he will have a major decision to make.
About Lisa
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 A Tempus Fugit... The constellation derives its name from the hourglass, and stands for knowledge and time — or rather, the trade-off between them. As each grain of sand falls down, a moment of time — of life, even, dies for good. To stop the unrelenting flow of sand, one would have to turn the hourglass on its side. But once the sand comes to rest, it remains motionless forever... Hmm, maybe "becomes lazy" is more accurate than "comes to rest," in this case.
About Venti
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 Venti? The bard that sits around doing nothing all day? What's so interesting about him? Sure, I guess I can take a look...
Huh, that's weird, the scryglass, it's... I can't see a thing... this wind... I can't... open my eyes! No, my hat! Ah! My clothes, stop! The wind's going to strip all my clothes off! Make it stop, make it stop! ...Alright, alright! I'll never do this again!
More About Mona: I	 You want to chat... for fun? Oh... I don't usually have spare time for such activities, especially when I have so many columns left to write... Then again, since it's you, it might be worth it. Hehe, a change of pace once in a while isn't such a bad thing.
More About Mona: II
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 3
 Income? From astrology...? You can't use... things like Mora to determine the value of astrology! You need to understand: hydromancy is the one and only means of discerning people's true destiny in the whole of Teyvat! No matter how much Mora or gems you might have, the value of fate is quite simply incalculable! Perhaps not the smartest question you might have had for me...
More About Mona: III
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 4
 You want me to explain how astrology works? I'm not sure you'd understand even if I told you. But since you ask... The method I use is called hydromancy. The art of inferring fate from the illusory reflection of the stars on the water's surface. The inverted reflection in the water is an image of the heavens from within which the truth of our world can be observed. ...It is the one and only success story of that old lady's research endeavors.
More About Mona: IV
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 5
 Mona Megistus, the Astrologist — we came up with that name together, the old lady and me. She said it had a nice ring to it... But then she started calling me 'Meg' for short, which is obviously unnecessary, because clearly 'Mona' is already suffice for a shorter name— No! You are NOT allowed to call me that, it's embarrassing! Gah! I knew I shouldn't have told you!
More About Mona: V
Item Companionship EXP Friendship Lv. 6
 The golden rule all fortune-tellers abide is: never offer advice. Only state the results of the divination. Otherwise, you risk your fate becoming tangled up with that of your subject. But for you, I will make an exception to this rule — because our fates have been intertwined from the beginning.
(Actual Voice-Over: The golden rule all fortune-tellers abide is: never offer advice. Only state the results of the divination. Otherwise, you risk your fate becoming tangled up with that of your subject's. But for you, I will make an exception to this rule — because our fates have been intertwined from the beginning.)
Mona's Hobbies	 My hobby? Stargazing! In this all-too-real world in which we live, we all need to look up from the dust once in a while and fix our gaze on the stars, in a spirit of wonder... That, plus the whole thing about me being an astrologer.
Mona's Troubles	 *sigh* The equipment repair bill is due, and so is the final payment for that celestial globe I ordered... Also, I still need to renew my journal subscriptions, not to mention pay the rent... Hmm, which one to prioritize? ...Ah, I'll pay off the celestial globe first. If I leave it any longer, they'll sell out, and then I'll never get my hands on one...
Favorite Food	 Salad. Salad is by far the best food in the world. Cheap to buy, easy to whip up, filling, and it's the most convenient thing there is when you're working on a column or fixing some equipment — I mean, who's got time for a proper dinner anyway?
Least Favorite Food	 You know, all those... overpriced, fancy foods. Personally, I think it's uncivilized and, frankly, dangerous to splash out and indulge yourself every time you have a little hunger pang.
Receiving a Gift: I	 Ah, so satisfied... Who would have thought knowing you would bear so many benefits.
Receiving a Gift: II	 Just to be clear... you're sure I don't have to pay... for any of this?
Receiving a Gift: III	 I don't mean to nitpick, or anything, it's just... I haven't quite eaten enough.
Birthday	 Happy Birthday. Here's my gift to you — it's a bag containing some words of advice that may help you through tough patches.
...No, don't open it yet. During the year ahead, this bag will open itself when the right time comes.
Feelings About Ascension: Intro
Icon Character Ascension Unlocked Ascension Phase 1
 This was ordained by fate! Long had I forseen it.
Feelings About Ascension: Building Up
Icon Character Ascension Unlocked Ascension Phase 2
 ...One step closer. Maybe soon I shall finally uncover the truth of this world?
Feelings About Ascension: Climax
Icon Character Ascension Unlocked Ascension Phase 4
 My scryglass has long since preordained all that will take place beneath the stars it reflects.
Feelings About Ascension: Conclusion
Icon Character Ascension Unlocked Ascension Phase 6
 In the reflection of the water, I see the ascension of the morning star.
ADVERTISEMENT
Combat
Title	Details
Elemental Skill	 Let me scry!
 Shadows of fate!
 Delve into destiny!
Elemental Burst	 Fate is upon you.
 Written in the stars!
 Decided by destiny!
Sprint Start	   
Sprint End	Mona does not feature any Sprint End Voice-Overs.
Deploying Wind Glider	 Scry the sky!
  
Opening Treasure Chest	 We could do with some more fortune...
 This should cover food and rent for a while!
 Ah, finding treasure is pretty exhilarating!
Low HP	 My vision is clouded...
 Odious fate...
 This was not foretold!
Ally at Low HP	 Do not tempt fate.
 This is not your destiny.
Fallen	 The stars... are fading...
 Destiny cannot be... denied.
 My reckoning... has come...
Light Hit Taken	 Curses.
     
Heavy Hit Taken	 Leave my space!
     
Joining Party	 This is destiny.
 This is how it must be.
 It is as the stars foretold.

 It matters not. Astrologers must rid themselves of material desires. Only by ridding oneself of clutter can one see the true world around them

Beautiful veneers may obscure simple truths.

Exquisite food may mask its nutritional value.

One lives simply, all the better to expose this world's truths.

I—I'm done for. The thing inside this was the dark history of her youth... she will kill me if I go back like this...

It is people's fate that shines in the night sky, and though its reflection in water is but an illusion, it reveals the truth nonetheless.

"Your son says that he's made it. That's a lie."

"You've got no chance with him. In fact, he will soon leave you."

Hmph. The techniques passed down to me are exceptional, of course, but my teacher is not my equal.

Does she know the market rates for eggs, butter, or wheat? In this regard, I have already far surpassed her.

Out here, we've gotta have each other's backs.

Icon Dialogue Idle So hungry...
Icon Dialogue Idle The stars...
Icon Dialogue Idle Astrology...
Icon Dialogue Idle My manuscripts...
Icon Dialogue Idle My recent expenditures...
(When the player is nearby)
Icon Dialogue Idle How do you do...
Icon Dialogue Idle How unexpected...

Mona: Huh? Looking for me at this hour of the day... This falls outside of my predictions.
 Mona: Ahem... Is something the matter?
Icon Dialogue Talk How do you like it here?
 Mona: Of course! The conditions and facilities are first-class, and it's very comfortable here.
 Mona: So comfortable that... I'm a bit worried that it might be hard to adjust once I leave.
Icon Dialogue Talk Then... shouldn't you leave before it's too late?
 Mona: Wh—What? No! Are you serious?
Icon Dialogue Talk There goes the Great Astrologist's pride...
Icon Dialogue Talk You can stay forever.
 Mona: R—Really?
 Mona: Being able to live in such a wonderful place without having to pay rent... Am I dreaming?
Icon Dialogue Talk There goes the Great Astrologist's pride...
 Mona: Huh?
 Mona: Why you...! Hmph... since you're letting me stay here for free, I'll let that pass...
 Mona: Hmm... Let me think of a way to repay you somehow.
 Mona: This way, we won't be indebted to each other.
(Unlocks at Friendship Level 4)
Icon Dialogue Talk Would you like to have a chat with me?
 Mona: Alright, I'm in good spirits. Is there anything you wish to know?
Icon Dialogue Talk I want to hear some of your knowledge!
 Mona: Oh... how studious of you.
 Mona: I am indisputably an erudite scholar, for my learning encompasses the stars above and earth below.
 Mona: ...But it would consume a considerable amount of time to explain the tenets of astrology...
 Mona: For now, some practical advice will do!
Icon Dialogue Talk Oh? Like what?
Icon Dialogue Talk You seem to have a lot of life experience...
 Mona: Well, of course!
 Mona: Hmm... For instance, ingredients approaching their expiration date can be used to create very cost-effective meals as long as you thoroughly cook them with the appropriate cooking methods.
 Mona: Many stores have monthly sales. Find an opportune time to stock up on grains and dried foods. As staple foods, they will keep you feeling full for a long time.
 Mona: Also... Processing your own meat products is much cheaper than buying them ready-made.
Icon Dialogue Talk Your knowledge is all about saving money...
 Mona: Ah...! Huh!
 Mona: How impolite of you to generalize it as such!
 Mona: These techniques are all a crucial element of living a disciplined life. They are the result of refinement of the objective laws of the world.
 Mona: S—So I'll be stricter with you. You need to be more disciplined if you are to understand this world's truths!
Icon Dialogue Talk Got it!
 Mona: Heh, you will understand how useful these are once you try.
 Mona: After you have mastered these, I will impart more of the secret wonders hidden deep within this world.
(Unlocks at Friendship Level 7)
Icon Dialogue Talk Anything you'd like to do?
 Mona: Hmm, I want to reserve some of your spare time. Let's go on a vacation together.
Icon Dialogue Talk A... A vacation?
 Mona: Maybe on an uninhabited island or in a quiet rainforest, just somewhere we can put work aside and relax for a bit.
Icon Dialogue Talk This doesn't sound like you...
 Mona: Is that so...? Hey, you don't just think of me as some research-obsessed maniac with a one-track mind, do you?
 Mona: Everything I do is to comprehend the truths of the world... Even a vacation is a way to meet this end.
Icon Dialogue Talk Do you have funds for this...?
 Mona: Hehe, I've already prepared them, of course.
 Mona: I started preparing for this a long time ago.
 Mona: Saving money can be difficult, so I specially prepared a savings jar. Every time I received a payment, I put aside some of it.
 Mona: During this time, I also resisted buying hardcover copies of research manuscripts... Eventually, I had saved up enough.
Icon Dialogue Talk That must've been hard...
 Mona: Hehe, it's alright, it was worth it!
Icon Dialogue Talk Then I'll go set aside some time.
Icon Dialogue Talk I can't use your money.
 Mona: Huh? What do you mean by that?
 Mona: Thanks for being considerate, but this is something I want to do, so it really is fine.
Icon Dialogue Talk Then I'll go set aside some time.
 Mona: Okay! I'll await your word.
(Between 6:00 and 19:00)
Icon Dialogue Talk Good morning, Mona.
 Mona: Oh, good morning.
 Mona: If you need anything, I'll make time for you. Call me if there is something you can't resolve.
(Between 19:00 and 6:00)
Icon Dialogue Talk Good night, Mona.
 Mona: It's already time for you to turn in? If you ask me, there's never enough time in a day.
 Mona: Good night, (Traveler). Yes, go replenish your strength.

 Mona: ...Quite the dignified study. May I use it as well?
 Mona: In that case, I hope you don't mind if I stack all the star maps I bought over here.
 Mona: Hmm... I still have those things I bought on sale. If I want to maximize my use of space, I'll need to plan this out more carefully.
Cottage Kitchen
 Mona: Let me quickly inspect the ingredients in the kitchen...
 Mona: After all, you will most certainly need wisdom to turn limited ingredients into a dish that can keep you full for an entire day.
 Mona: Oh yes, thank you for preparing these! If you're not averse, you're welcome to try some as well.

 Today's starry night... Although it has nothing to do with divination, it is still a beautiful sight. The moon shines brightly and the stars are twinkling. And the most important thing is that we now admire this beautiful sight together.
Returner	Though I am unable to foresee your future... I know that our fate is far from over. See, our paths have crossed again!
Newcomer	You're asking me why I'm hiding and concealing myself in flowing water? Hmph, if you were lectured by my teacher for a whole day, you would understand!

No one can confidently say that they will never get lost, but as long as their wish to guide and help others does not waver, they will become a ship that can traverse the waves eternally.
I didn't perform any divination before writing this letter, but I have a feeling that I will witness the truth behind the prophecy together with you all.

So if you need me, just call on me at my place. I'll be there.

Today is the birthday of The Great Astrologist Mona! This special day only comes once a year, so we should go all out and have a big celebration!

But alas... upon closer inspection of the shopping list, there are too many things to buy. If I bought it all, I wouldn't be able to pay my rent next month. Oh well, I'll just have to think about it later.

I've been looking for more ways to make a living, so I got a few volumes of Teachings of Gold... but I don't know if I didn't read them well enough or if they actually had nothing to do with earning Mora at all. They didn't work for me, but maybe they might work for you. If you find them useful, do keep them.

If you have time, let's meet up. It'll be the end of the month soon, so with the month's expenses out of the way, Mora shouldn't be a problem! Anyway, let's have a nice meal together!

It's the Great Astrologist Mona's birthday again! Do you want to come over to my place?

I'll say this in advance — you absolutely cannot complain about the state of my room. It is NOT because I don't clean up, okay? Everything I put out there are things I need to use on a daily basis.

If you're curious about what they do, I can explain it all to you in detail. But if you want to try them out, you need to pay close attention to my instructions because things can easily go wrong. Do you understand?

See you tonight then! I'm going to start preparing for dinner...