???: Finally.
 ???: You kept me waiting so long I almost fell asleep.
 ???: Haha, as usual, my astrological predictions are proven correct.
 ???: You. Yes you. Come with me.
 Paimon: Um... Are you some sort of door-to-door fortune teller?
 Paimon: Sorry, but we're not really interested.
 ???: You're not from this world, are you?
(If the player has not met Mona before)
 Paimon: H–How do you know about that?
 ???: How? Because I'm a master of true astrology.
 ???: If you've no other questions, let's be off.
Icon Dialogue Talk Oh, I'm just full of questions.
Icon Dialogue Talk For starters, who are you?
 ???: *sigh* Fine, I'll exercise a little patience, and explain.
 Mona: I am Astrologist Mona Megistus. But considering that it is most rude to misremember names, I allow others to call me Mona.
 Mona: I am on a mission from my master to retrieve a certain box from Mondstadt.
(If the player has already met Mona through The Crisis Deepens)
 Mona: Does my ability to see through your secrets so easily not evoke any memories?
Icon Dialogue Talk It's been a while.
Icon Dialogue Talk You're Mona!
 Paimon: Oh, Paimon remembers! You're that astrologist!
 Mona: That's right. It is I, Astrologist Mona Megistus.
 Mona: This time, I would like you to come with me to Mondstadt to reclaim a box that belongs to my master.
 Mona: It was part of an agreement she made with a friend 50 years ago. But she isn't as spry as she used to be, so it's now up to me.
 Paimon: Not sure what getting some box back has to do with us. Why do you need us to come along?
 Mona: Well... that's because I would also like to take on the guardian of the box.
 Mona: My master and her friend contended in the mystic arts all their lives without a clear victor. If I triumph here, then I will show myself to be superior to my master!
Icon Dialogue Talk So you want to prove yourself, huh...
 Mona: Ahem, well, I want to prove the power and status of astrology, to be precise.
Icon Dialogue Talk So basically, you want to look good.
 Mona: What are you talking about? The main thing here is to use this chance to prove the power and status of astrology!
 Mona: Now, from my predictions, I know that my master's friend has left Mondstadt, leaving her successor as the current guardian of that box.
 Mona: Like me, that successor must also be the one who has surpassed their teacher. I must not be careless.
 Mona: But I would prefer to assure my victory in this contest, and upon giving it some thought, you came to mind!
Icon Dialogue Talk But... I have no idea how astrology works.
 Paimon: How did she get involved in this anyway?
Icon Dialogue Talk How did you end up thinking of me?
 Mona: The knowledge passed down to me from my master must be passed on in turn.
 Mona: If I were to bring my disciple to meet her, then the lead is already mine, no?
 Mona: And you are Mondstadt's great hero, my equal in status. So...
Icon Dialogue Talk I refuse.
Icon Dialogue Talk Since when was I your student?
 Mona: Come on, you don't have to actually become my disciple. You just need to act the part.
 Mona: There's something in it for you as well, should you come with me to get that box.
 Mona: Once I meet that successor and have a chance to exchange knowledge with them, I should be able to read your fate more accurately.
 Mona: Then, I will have answers for you, even regarding such distant and foggy matters as gods and kin.
 Paimon: That... that does seem much faster than searching the land country by country!
Icon Dialogue Talk Those sound like fine conditions.
Icon Dialogue Talk Well... I guess we'll play along.
 Mona: Hehe, a wise decision. Let us be off, then.
 Mona: That said, I would like to pay a certain place a visit before we go.
(After cutscene ends)
 Mona: There is a small inn near Mt. Tianheng that never sees a lot of business, even though its food is always great value for the money.
 Mona: The owner has always been good to me, so I'd like to say a farewell before I set off.
(At Mr. Zhu's inn)
 Paimon: (Well, it's no wonder that an inn set up here has no business...)
 Mr. Zhu: Mona, you've come at just the right time. Did you see a jade ring while you made your way here?
 Mona: A jade ring? Can't say I have.
 Mr. Zhu: Oh, that's not good... that ring was given to me by my mentor. But while my back was turned, it was swallowed up by a slime!
 Paimon: Hmm? That should be no trouble with Mona here. She's really good at astrology...
 Mona: Absolutely not. Astrology is meant to be used to gain insight into reality and observe destiny itself. It's certainly not for such mundane affairs.
 Paimon: But didn't you say that the owner here's been good to you?
 Mona: This is a matter of pride and one's state of mind. If an astrologist thinks that their arts can solve all problems, they will be forsaken by the starry ether.
 Mona: Their divinations will lose the power to guide, and will not be able to pierce the fog of the unknown before them. Principles are principles.
 Paimon: Such a powerful ability, and you don't use it to earn a living? What a shame...
 Mr. Zhu: *sigh* Well, I was going to put up twenty thousand Mora as compensation, if you were willing.
 Mona: Twenty thousand...!
Icon Dialogue Talk Are you alright?
Icon Dialogue Talk What's with that look on your face?
 Mona: Oh, ahh, it's nothing! I... I was just thinking that the person who finds that ring must be lucky indeed, to be able to earn twenty thousand Mora just like that.
Icon Dialogue Talk You were just talking about an astrologist's pride...
Icon Dialogue Talk Whatever happened to "principles are principles"?
 Mona: Ahem. Yes. Of course. Still... the owner's business has had it pretty hard. It must be a truly extraordinary ring, to be worth spending this much Mora to find.
 Mona: It wouldn't be right for us to leave like this, so let's help to search for it. There may be other means we can employ besides astrology.
 Paimon: Oh, Paimon knows where this is going.
 Mona: (Traveler), I know, I'll leave this one to you! This is the first mission I'm giving you as your master!
Icon Dialogue Talk But of course...
Icon Dialogue Talk Guess it's become my business. Again.
 Paimon: Hmm, since it was swallowed up by a slime, maybe we can use Elemental Bait to lure all the nearby slimes to us.
 Paimon: You remember? The stuff we helped Master Diluc make.
 Paimon: And... Hehe, Paimon actually kept a small amount!
Icon Dialogue Talk Well done Paimon!
 Paimon: Paimon's the very best partner, right?
Icon Dialogue Talk Don't tell me that when you get greedy, you...
 Paimon: Aw, don't sweat the small stuff.
 Mona: Seems like you already have a plan.
 Paimon: Yup. We'll be back in a jiffy!
(After cutscene ends)
 Paimon: The Elemental Bait's really strong – it will attract all the slimes in the area.
 Paimon: Even if they're just slimes, they can be dangerous together, so we'd best prepare ourselves.
(Talking to Mona again)
 Mona: This is your first mission, so don't mess it up.
 Mona: But if the going gets too tough for you... Well, I shall lend a hand then.
(Talking to Mr. Zhu again)
Mr. Zhu: Thank you all very much, that ring really is very important to me.
(Upon finding the ring)
 Paimon: Found it! This must be the ring!
 Paimon: It's so pretty. Paimon's sure it's worth a ton of...
 Paimon: ...Ah, Paimon wasn't having any bad thoughts! Let's bring the ring back to Mr. Zhu!
(Giving the ring back to Mr. Zhu)
 Mr. Zhu: That's it, that's the one! I thought it was lost forever!
 Mona: You actually found it. Not bad.
 Mona: Mr. Zhu, you must take care of such precious things a bit better. You might not be so fortunate next time.
 Mr. Zhu: You're absolutely right. How would I have faced my family if I had lost the 253rd ring my mother gave me?
Icon Dialogue Talk ...
Icon Dialogue Talk ... ...
Icon Dialogue Talk ... ... ...
 Mr. Zhu: Ah, let me explain. My family owns three jade mines, and in order to ensure that I would be able to find myself a good wife, my mother had many jade accessories made as heirlooms.
 Mr. Zhu: I think there might be over five hundred of them.
 Mona: Then, why would you feel the need to set up an inn here?
 Mr. Zhu: Well, inheriting the family business too early unavoidably made things boring.
 Mr. Zhu: Thank you, all the same. Here's the Mora, as agreed. Please take it.
 Paimon: Then—
 Mona: —Then I'll take it gladly!
Icon Dialogue Talk That was quick!
Icon Dialogue Talk Even Paimon wasn't that fast!
 Paimon: But we did all the work!
 Mona: A disciple should act like one. How can they steal their master's thunder?
Icon Dialogue Talk Well...
 Paimon: Traveler, didn't we say that we were just playing pretend?
Icon Dialogue Talk I never said I'd really be your disciple.
 Paimon: Exactly!
 Mona: Well, you need to start practicing now. If my rival is as smart as I think they are, they will figure you out in a heartbeat.
???: *stomach grumble*
 Mona: Huh...
 Paimon: What was that rumbling sound?
 Mr. Zhu: Oh, right, you mustn't have eaten in days. I'm very sorry, I forgot that you have no...
 Mona: Aaaaaaah—! Shhhhahahahaha! That didn't happen! Forget it!
 Mona: ...Hmph! Well, I suddenly feel that you have indeed contributed to our good fortune. I say we spend this money on treating you to a fine meal!
 Mona: If we travel north, we'll reach the Wangshu Inn. I hear that the food there is really good, so let's go try it out!
 Mona: No need to thank me, I'm just doing as a good master should!
 Paimon: Did she say she was treating us?! Is Paimon hearing things?
Icon Dialogue Talk "Let's go after her." There. I said it for you.
 Paimon: Let's go after her! For good food!
Icon Dialogue Talk "She's a good person." Said it for you.
 Paimon: She's a good person! Hehe, let's have ourselves a great meal!
(Talking to Mr. Zhu again)
 Mr. Zhu: Thank you all so much. You're welcome to drop by again.
 Mr. Zhu: Well, if this inn hasn't closed its doors yet, haha...

 Paimon: Since it's Mona's treat, we can order whatever we want, right?
 Mona: Of course. I am a most generous master, after all. But only if you can finish it all. Wasting food simply will not do.
 Yuhua: Excuse me, what would you like to order?
Icon Dialogue Talk These Golden Shrimp Balls...
 Yuhua: These are made using large, succulent shrimp wrapped in crispy-fried potatoes. They have an amazing texture.
Icon Dialogue Talk As for the Vegetarian Abalone...
 Yuhua: It's exactly what it says on the label — abalone made from vegetarian ingredients. It's just as good as the real thing!
Icon Dialogue Talk How about this Crab Roe Tofu...
 Yuhua: Though tofu could not be a more ordinary ingredient, it and crab roe are truly a match made in heaven. It's one of our specialties.
Icon Dialogue Talk And this Salted Pork Soup...
 Yuhua: This is a favorite among our regulars. Bamboo shoots, meat and ham are cooked together, creating a richly-flavored soup.
 Yuhua: Pour a few spoonfuls into each bowl of rice you eat — you'll never get enough of it!
(After hearing the waitress describe each dish)
Icon Dialogue Talk I'll order them all.
 Mona: A—All of them? We only have three... No, two and a half people? Isn't that too much food?
 Paimon: That's not how you count it! Besides, Paimon hasn't even ordered yet!
 Paimon: Squirrel Fish, Jueyun Chili Chicken, and Jewelry Soup, please!
 Yuhua: Sure. And is there anything else that you would like to order, ma'am?
 Mona: I—I'd just like to ask, how much do the current dishes cost in total?
 Yuhua: Um, around twenty thousand Mora.
 Mona: Then I—I'll just have some vegetarian noodles, please.
 Yuhua: Alright. A bowl of vegetarian noodles, was it? Please wait a moment, we will serve you shortly.
The food arrives. You and Paimon gorge yourselves on a feast fit for a king, while Mona dines on vegetarian noodles.
 Paimon: Paimon's been thinking about something since we started eating...
Icon Dialogue Talk Why did she only order one dish?
 Paimon: Is it... because she actually doesn't have money?
 Mona: I heard that! I said I was treating. How could I be rattled by something as mundane as Mora!?
 Mona: An astrologist's mind is set on studying the stars. Being so easily disturbed by such banal matters would hamper my judgment.
 Mona: Especially the act of overly gratifying oneself using Mora. It is both vulgar...
???: *stomach grumble*
 Mona: ...and dangerous.
 Paimon: So not eating the dishes we ordered is also part of an astrologist's pride? Paimon doesn't get it.
 Paimon: But it feels kinda bad that only we got to feast...
Icon Dialogue Talk Let me whip something up for you.
 Paimon: Oh, yes! We can do that! Just give us a minute!
(After cutscene ends)
 Paimon: You don't use Mora to fulfill your desires. So, it's fine as long as you're not buying anything, right?
 Paimon: Let's go borrow the kitchen from the innkeeper!
(Talking to Mona again)
 Mona: There's no need to spend all that effort on me, I'm not in dire need of food.
 Mona: I am a little hungry... but it's not a big deal.
 Huai'an: Hello, how may I help you?
 Paimon: We'd like to borrow the kitchen here.
Icon Dialogue Talk A friend of mine would like to eat a special dish.
Icon Dialogue Talk My friend would like to eat something made by me.
 Huai'an: Ah, I see. In that case, sure. As long as you've prepared your own ingredients, feel free to use the kitchen.
 Huai'an: If I may... You must be well-versed in the art of cooking, yes?
Icon Dialogue Talk Of course. If I make it, it's delicious!
 Huai'an: Haha, talented indeed. Actually, I have a small suggestion to make...
Icon Dialogue Talk Not really...
 Huai'an: Haha, how humble of you. Actually, I have a little suggestion...
 Huai'an: From your clothes, you're most likely not from around these parts. But since you've come to Liyue, would you like to try making Liyue-style cuisine?
 Huai'an: I have a recipe for Golden Crab with me. It's a Yue cuisine classic.
 Huai'an: It's crab meat that's been rolled in flour, deep-fried, and then pan-fried together with ginger and garlic. When you finally plate it up, the crab seems to be lying on gold.
 Paimon: Golden... Crab!
Icon Dialogue Talk That sounds a little complicated.
Icon Dialogue Talk Learning a whole new dish for Mona's sake is a bit...
 Paimon: Golden Crab, (Traveler)! Golden Crab!
Icon Dialogue Talk I got it, I got it. Golden Crab.
Icon Dialogue Talk ...I guess I'm learning it for your sake, too.
 Paimon: Heh-heh. Then let's get to it!
 Paimon: With your skills in the kitchen, this'll be a cinch!
(Obtain Recipe: Golden Crab ×1)
(Returning to Mona)
 Mona: There's no need to spend all that effort on me, I'm not in dire need of food...
 Mona: I am a little hungry... but it's not a big deal.
(Give Golden Crab or Delicious Golden Crab to Mona)
 Mona: T—This aroma is...
Icon Dialogue Talk Something to go with your noodles.
 Mona: I never thought it'd be so luxurious...
Icon Dialogue Talk Your special order, ma'am.
 Mona: W-Wow, it's incredible...!
 Mona: Fine. Since my disciple has put in so much time and effort, I must — with great difficulty — accept.
(If Normal Golden Crab)
 Mona: ...Aah! It's delicious! It's the most delicious thing I've eaten recently!
(If Delicious Golden Crab)
 Mona: ...Ooh! This Golden Crab is too delicious! I have never eaten anything this good in my life!
 Mona: Ah, uh, I mean... *cough* I never knew that my disciple was this skilled. As your master, I am most comforted.
Icon Dialogue Talk As long as you're eating a full meal.
Icon Dialogue Talk You say that, but you're clearly relishing the meal.
 Mona: I see that it's no boast to call them Liyue's delicacies.
 Mona: I suppose it wasn't too much to spend all this Mora on...
 Mona: Ah, it's nothing. Nothing at all. Now that we've eaten and drank our fill, we should be off.
 Mona: If we travel north from here, we should reach the Stone Gate, and from there, we will be within the boundaries of Mondstadt.
 Mona: What deep mysteries shall we acquire knowledge of? *chuckles* I'm looking forward to it.
(After reaching the destination at the Stone Gate)
 Mona: Phew. That was tiring, but we're finally in Mondstadt.
 Mona: The quest to plumb the wondrous depths of knowledge is indeed arduous...
 Paimon: Paimon's not tired.
 Mona: Ugh, that's because you float.
 Paimon: Well, it doesn't look like an astrologist is all that amazing either.
 Mona: That's because you have too many unrealistic fantasies about astrology.
 Tyler: Are you also resting your feet here?
 Paimon: Who are you?
 Tyler: Oh, my brothers and I are all merchants. We just finished doing business in Liyue, and we're preparing to head back to Mondstadt.
 Tyler: You look rather tired. The cart we hired will be coming in a while — what say you to coming along for the ride?
Icon Dialogue Talk Well, I am a little tired...
 Tyler: Haha, let's go, then. We can make conversation along the way, the more the merrier.
Icon Dialogue Talk Do I need to pay?
 Tyler: No need, no need, we're already heading that way anyway.
 Mona: There's no need. Now shoo. Get out of our way.
 Tyler: Eh? Miss... Is there something wrong?
 Mona: Cease your pretensions, bandit.
 Mona: Picking up people on the road who appear vulnerable robbing them blind once they've gotten on the cart, and then taking them to some archon-forsaken place — is that your deal?
 Tyler: W—What are you saying? We came over here to make conversation, and this is how we're rewarded? With insults?
 Tyler: If you don't want to get on, don't! Crazy girl...
 Mona: Well then, shall I tell you now which objects you have on you that are stolen?
 Mona: If you have any quibbles, we can bring people to corroborate what I've said, and all will come to light.
 Mona: If I lose, I'll pay you twenty thousand Mora. But if I win, then you'll be eating prison rations in Liyue Harbor tonight.
 Mona: How about it? If you're real legitimate businessmen, there's nothing to fear, is there?
 Tyler: You... You!
 Tyler: You've pushed it too far, brat!
 Tyler: I don't know how you found out, but as long as we get rid of you, no one will have to know!
Icon Dialogue Talk Careful, Mona!
Icon Dialogue Talk You will not touch her!
 Mona: Don't fret, it's just a few bandits.
 Mona: You said earlier that there was nothing amazing about astrologists... Well then, this is a good time to show you what your master can do.
(After defeating the bandits)
 Mona: Hmph, what did you think? Did that satisfy your expectations?
Icon Dialogue Talk Your combat abilities were amazing.
Icon Dialogue Talk It's impressive that you saw through those bandits.
 Mona: Such things are elementary for an astrologist.
 Mona: Lies are worthless before astrology. Destiny and truth are written in the stars.
 Mona: Though it may take more time to garner the specifics, I can read the gist of a situation at a glance.
 Paimon: But you did hit some bumps in the road...
 Mona: That's because Teyvat's stars can only display the fates and truths of "this world."
 Mona: Anything related to you becomes like a fog that even I cannot penetrate.
 Mona: That is why I must meet that successor. With our knowledge combined, I might be able to gain new insight into your fate.
Icon Dialogue Talk I'm a little excited.
Icon Dialogue Talk I'm not getting my hopes up...
 Mona: Ha. Whatever the case, you've got everything to gain from this trip.
 Mona: Alright, I'm rested. Let's get this journey to Mondstadt over with!
 Paimon: *sigh* If only we had a cart...
 Mona: I thought you weren't tired!

 Mona: Are you ready? Don't shame your master now — we're about to meet that successor.
Icon Dialogue Talk I can't tell fortunes...
Icon Dialogue Talk I can't read the stars...
 Mona: I guess... Wait, no! It won't do if you have no idea at all, even if you are a fake disciple.
 Mona: We have a rule that forbids us from teaching outsiders, but I suppose... I suppose I could teach you.
 Mona: My astrology is based on hydromancy, and as the name suggests, I use the reflections in water bodies to observe the true starry sky.
 Mona: Allow me to demonstrate. Watch closely now.
 Mona: From the present station and movement of the stars... I see, so that successor is a young... female... Knight of Favonius.
 Paimon: Doesn't that sound like... Lisa?
 Mona: We will meet her here presently.
 Mona: Well, that's all the information we need.
Icon Dialogue Talk T—That's all?
Icon Dialogue Talk I haven't had a chance to look yet.
 Mona: *sigh* It seems that even basic astrology can't be grasped in one go.
 Mona: Never mind. I'll explain in detail later — she's here.
  Klee: Wow, it's you, (Mister/Miss) Honorary Knight! And Paimon too! You're back!
 Mona: That's her! The successor to great knowledge!
Icon Dialogue Talk ...You mean Klee?!
Icon Dialogue Talk There must be some mistake!
 Klee: Successor...?
 Mona: That's right. I am the astrologist who has plumbed the depths of the ocean of stars. Surely, you have long calculated my arrival as well.
 Klee: An ocean of stars? What's that? Does it have fish in it?
 Mona: Fish...? No, don't play dumb. Is this some kind of game?
 Klee: I should be the one saying that! I didn't get what you said at all!
Icon Dialogue Talk We're getting nowhere fast.
Icon Dialogue Talk See, I said this was a mistake.
 Mona: But my predictions can't be mistaken... Well, let's make sure. Your mother's name is Alice, isn't it?
 Klee: That's right! Oh, so you're Mommy's friend! But she's gone very far away...
 Mona: My readings told me as much. But before she left, she must have imparted her mystical arts to you, surely?
 Klee: Mystical... arts? I... don't get it. Mommy only taught me to make Jumpy Dumpties.
 Paimon: So Klee's mother is the friend and rival of Mona's teacher?
 Mona: Yes. As well-versed in astrology as she was, my master knew only astrology. Alice, on the other hand, was skilled in a great many other mystical fields.
 Paimon: Well... Klee's so young, so even if she'd heard this deep knowledge, she might not have understood.
 Mona: Yes. It seems she has inherited the blood, but not the knowledge... what a miscalculation. There can be no contest like this.
 Mona: Ah, yes. So, before Alice left, did she tell you about a fifty-year agreement, and about a certain box?
 Klee: Ooh, I know this one! So you're here for that box. I'll look. Wait here!
 Klee: Hmm... Not this one...
 Klee: Hmm... Hm... Or this one...
 Klee: No, no, it's not this one either...
 Klee: Ah! I remember now. I buried it together with my new treasure, at Windrise!
Icon Dialogue Talk It's a bomb again, isn't it?
Icon Dialogue Talk Why do you always bury important things outdoors?
 Klee: Wait for me. I'll be right back!
 Paimon: Klee, don't just run off! Don't you need the things in your pack?
 Mona: I'll help her pack these things back in. You go after her.
 Mona: *sigh* Looking at how rash she is, I worry for the box...
(Talk to Mona again)
 Mona: That box is really important to me...
 Mona: If anything were to happen to it, I wouldn't be able to report back to that old crone...
(Catch up to Klee)
 Klee: We're heeere! This is it. Let's dig it up!
Icon Dialogue Talk This has to be the work of Dendro Slimes.
Icon Dialogue Talk Dendro Slimes must have done this.
 Klee: It can't be. I put up a sign here. There's no mistake–
 Klee: Argh! Dendro Slimes!
Icon Dialogue Talk Yup. Dendro Slimes.
 Paimon: *sigh* We can talk later, let's take them out first!
(After defeating the Dendro Slimes)
 Klee: Found it! It's this box.
 Paimon: Glad it wasn't damaged in the explosions.
 Klee: Retrieval complete! Let's bring it back!
(Return to Mona)
 Mona: You're back at last. The wait was exceedingly dull.
 Mona: I had intended to read a book to pass the time, but this one was just some ridiculous diary. Nothing of note in it at all.
 Mona: It dropped from Klee's backpack, so I thought it might contain some ancient knowledge, but...
 Mona: Never mind that. So, did you find the box?
 Klee: We did. It's in perfect shape!
 Mona: That's wonderful— Wait a moment... W—Why isn't it locked?! And... why is it empty!?
 Paimon: Ehhh?!
 Klee: Well... it's because I borrowed this box to store my treasures.
 Mona: Borrowed?!
 Klee: But since you're here for the box, I took all my treasures out. That's why it's empty.
 Mona: You used it to store your things?! T—Then where are the original contents of the box? That's what I want.
 Klee: Oh. You want the thing that used to be in the box? ...You should've said so.
 Mona: You haven't... broken it, have you?
 Klee: No! It's not broken at all!
 Mona: Phew...
 Klee: It's the book in your hand.
 Mona: Whaaaaaaat—?!
 Mona: T—This... So this book, this diary... is that hag's... It's her diary from 50 years ago?!
 Mona: The thing she wanted back after 50 years was the dark history of her youth?
 Mona: Ah, I'm finished! No wonder... No wonder that old woman said that I should not look at it no matter what, or she'd rip me to shreds...
 Klee: Am... Am I in trouble?
 Klee: Ah! It was you who said you wanted the box. You didn't say anything about the thing inside!
 Klee: I don't know anything. I'm leaving! Bye!
Icon Dialogue Talk What a touching conclusion...
Icon Dialogue Talk There's no point getting mad at Klee.
 Paimon: Umm... Well, if you don't say anything, your master won't find out, will she?
 Mona: Impossible. Astrology can see through all lies — you've seen it yourself.
 Mona: *sigh* After having spent all my Mora to come to Mondstadt, not only have I gained no knowledge, but now I can't return... How did it come to this...
 Paimon: That's so sad... Maybe you could forget everything in that book, and then go back?
 Mona: That's... too difficult. And even if I wanted to stay in Mondstadt, it would be...
Icon Dialogue Talk Too embarrassing?
 Mona: Yes. How can I maintain a proper astrologist's mentality if I stay with all these philistines?
Icon Dialogue Talk Too expensive?
 Mona: Yes— I mean, no! You really have no way with words.
 Paimon: Well, then you'll just have to go back to face your master.
 Mona: S—Stop talking about it! I... I guess I'll have to...
 Mona: I'll just have to stay in Mondstadt temporarily. Once that old crone's reached the end of her days, I'll be free.
Icon Dialogue Talk An intimidating resolution.
Icon Dialogue Talk Does that really count as "temporary"?
 Mona: But what will I do about my astrology research? ...No, wait, I don't even have a place to stay.
 Paimon: About that, we can go ask Katheryne at the Adventurers' Guild. Let's see if she can help.
 Mona: The Adventurers' Guild? Ah, right, you can do commissions for them in exchange for... you know what I mean, don't you?
Icon Dialogue Talk Of course.
Icon Dialogue Talk That was always the plan.
 Mona: Oh. Um, thanks. I... Never mind, it's nothing.
(Talking to Katheryne)
 Katheryne: Ad astra abyssosque! Welcome to the Adventurers' Guild.
Icon Dialogue Quest About Mona's background and her quandary...
 Katheryne: I see. I understand the situation.
 Katheryne: There is a magic laboratory in Mondstadt that has been sealed by some unknown person.
 Katheryne: Although we have a few specialists who could break that seal, they all have their own labs, and aren't that interested in the matter.
 Katheryne: I believe that if the astrologist you mentioned can break that seal, the owner of that house wouldn't mind if she stayed there.
Icon Dialogue Talk I think she can do it.
Icon Dialogue Talk I'll take her to go have a look.
 Katheryne: Alright. Then, allow me to tell you where the house is.
(Interact with the door)
 Mona: The person who placed this seal... is by no means simple. Breaking this seal by force is nigh on impossible.
 Mona: Interesting. I suppose it's worth using my astrology on.
 Mona: Let me see... Hmm, I see, so if you first... ...and then you...
 Mona: Alright, it's open.
 Paimon: Holey moley, that's amazing!
 Paimon: Now we just need to go back to Katheryne, and you'll be able to stay here!
 Goth: No need, no need, you have my utmost thanks.
 Mona: You are...?
 Goth: Oh, I'm Goth, the owner of this house. I passed by the Adventurers' Guild a while back, and Katheryne told me about the matter.
 Goth: I never thought that this troublesome seal would be dispelled so quickly!
 Mona: Does that mean I can stay here?
 Goth: Of course, of course. The facilities inside were just being left there, anyway. I would be glad to have someone make use of them.
 Goth: To express my thanks, I shall rent this building to you at the lowest possible price!
 Mona: R—Rent?
 Mona: I didn't hear anything about rent, and I helped out, too...
 Goth: Help? Yes, of course, I understand. I am most thankful to you for that, so rest assured that I will give you the best rates!
 Mona: I... I mean...
 Paimon: Paimon thinks Mona's misunderstood something, but...
Icon Dialogue Talk This might be her best option.
Icon Dialogue Talk Save a little here, scrimp a little there, and you'll be fine.
 Mona: *sigh* I guess I don't have any other choice. I'll rent this place.
 Goth: Great! Then we are agreed. I will go prepare the documentation, please wait here.
 Mona: Thanks for your help. Also, well, I'm very sorry, but I won't be able to do what I agreed to help you with just yet.
 Mona: Without the necessary tools, and without new knowledge, it will take me some time to see your destiny clearly.
 Mona: But I promise that I'll do a reading for you first thing once I'm ready!
Icon Dialogue Talk As you said, this journey was all gain and no loss.
 Mona: Thank you. Our traveling together was fate — and of the good kind, I'd say.
Icon Dialogue Talk Guess you've got to keep working at it, then.
 Mona: Yes... I don't really know what to do, but... I'll do my best.
 Mona: I wish you both safe travels! As for me... I need to think of the future as well.
(Mona leaves)
 Paimon: How is she going to make a living if she doesn't use astrology to make money?
 Paimon: Maybe we should come back to check on her once in a while. It would be really bad if she fainted from hunger in there...
(Interact with Mona's laboratory)
 Mona: Cut that racket out! I'm doing experiments here!
 Mona: Oh, it's you, (Traveler). I'm currently running some tests related to your situation. I should see some results soon, so please wait patiently.
 Mona: Don't worry about me fainting from hunger. In any case, I've figured out a way to make some money...

 Mona: Ah, it's you. It's been a while.
Mona: Strange, you seem to be in a hurry. Were you looking for me, by any chance?
Paimon: Where have you been, Mona?
Icon Dialogue Talk We've been looking for you these last few days.
Mona: Oh, that was... rather inopportune of you. A few days ago, The Steambird sent me a request for a new manuscript.
Mona: The topic in question was "celestial shifts and their relation to a person's changing fates."
Mona: As such, I have largely been out studying the stars these past couple of days, only returning well after dark.
Paimon: Looks like Mona's working for that Mora...
Mona: W—Well, I mean, there's this new celestial globe from Fontaine that I've put down an order for. I've even paid the deposit already.
Mona: Once I get the Mora from submitting this manuscript, I should be able to settle the balance and claim the celestial globe.
Icon Dialogue Talk Well, don't forget about your rent payment to Goth...
Mona: Rent?
Mona: Oh! I, um.... Surely, I've put some Mora aside for this...
Mona: Give me a moment...
Mona rifles through her purse...
Mona: These here... and these! There, that should cover it!
Icon Dialogue Talk (She's practically emptied her pockets here...)
Mona: Right, then. Help me pass this Mora to Goth, would you?
(Obtain Light Purse)
(Talk to Mona again)
Mona: There isn't much left on the food budget. Good thing I made a few more servings of salad yesterday...

Mona: You're back. I assume Goth has been paid?
Icon Dialogue Talk That he has.
Mona: That's good. Thankfully, the rent on this house isn't particularly expensive. I was just barely able to scrounge up the necessary Mora as things stood.
Mona: That said, I suppose I'll be subsisting on salad for a few more days...

Mona: Someone looking for me? Who is it?
Icon Dialogue Talk You're Mona!
 Mona: Oh, it's you!
 Mona: So. What did you want?
(If you have not completed Beyond This World's Stars)
Icon Dialogue Talk Don't think so.
 Katheryne: Never mind. Please wait here a moment, I will see if she is available.
 Paimon: We get to meet a real life astrologist! Paimon's so excited!
(A moment later...)
 Mona: Katheryne, you seem frantic. What's the matter?
 Katheryne: Mona, I'd like to introduce you to some adventurers from the Guild. They've run into some problems and were hoping that you, with your astrological abilities, may be able to resolve them.
 Mona: Were they now? Good call. I'm pleasantly surprised that they've heard of the astrologist of the century!
 Mona: So, you must be the one who needed my help?
Icon Dialogue Talk Hello.
 Mona: Come on then, give me the lowdown. I may be willing to offer my skills — it all depends on the situation.
 Mona: Astrology is an ancient and mysterious art. If your problem is a banal one, you can count me out, as I have better things to do.
 Paimon: So here's what's happened...
(Paimon fills Mona in on what has happened...)
 Mona: And all of this was caused by the meteor shower... This I was not expecting.
 Fischl: The darkness consumes every corner of the land... And in fading twilight, only the prinzessin and her retinue still stand...
 Oz: Ms. Mona, your means are most crucial to our ends.
 Mona: Huh? Are you all together, then?
 Fischl: I am Fischl von Luftschloss Narfidort, Prinzessin der Verurteilung, and I hereby extend to you the great honor of joining my retinue.
 Mona: "Prinzessin der Verurteilung"? I'm sorry, which nation are you a princess of?
 Fischl: I hail from a distant and long-lost land known as the Immernachtreich...
 Mona: ...The in-my-what reich!?
 Fischl: Alas, precious few mere mortals know of the Immernachtreich.
 Mona: Mere mortal!? Do you have any idea who you're talking to? I am a highly accomplished astrologist, thank you very much!
 Mona: Just give me one second with scryglass, then we'll see where exactly this homeland of yours features in your personal history!
 Oz: Ms. Mona! I humbly beseech you to refrain from probing the question of mein Fräulein's homeland... revisiting the tragic tale of the world's demise always causes her much anguish...
 Oz: Surely a wise mage such as yourself can sympathize with a princess' grief for her lost kingdom?
 Mona: No, but— ahh...
Icon Dialogue Talk Sorry to interrupt, but work is our priority right now.
 Mona: Ahem! ...Yes, you're quite right.
 Mona: So. The goal here is to get all the sleepers to wake up. Am I right?
Icon Dialogue Talk Yes, they need help.
Icon Dialogue Talk Yes, we can't just leave them like this.
 Mona: Understood. Alright then, don't worry! I will lend you a hand.
 Mona: First things first, though, we need to get out of the city. There's too much magical disturbance here... Let's head somewhere where the ley line flow is a little smoother.
(Arrive at the designated scrying location)
 Mona: Wide open space... clear sky...
 Mona: This will do nicely.
 Mona: I will now begin the process of hydromancy. Stay back, and do not impede my vision.
(Mona performs hydromancy astrology magic)
 Paimon: ...Whatever it was you just did, it looked awesome!
 Fischl: O, astral emissary, have thine eyes now discerned the secrets of the stars?
 Paimon: Yeah, what do you find out?
 Mona: How strange... I've never seen this before.
 Mona: The divination shows that these meteorites came from someone's constellation.
 Paimon: Constellation? But they don't have anything to do with real astrology... Do they?
 Mona: That's what most people tend to think. But I've studied astrology for a very long time, and I know a few things about them that you might not.
 Mona: The stars that make up a constellation — the Stella Fortuna — are genuine celestial bodies in the depths of space. They are not simply notional.
 Mona: The strange thing is that they turned into meteors all of a sudden, and fell from the sky... Why this happened I am not yet sure. In need some time.
 Fischl: A curse! A wretched curse, I say!
 Mona: A curse!?
 Fischl: I, too, have journeyed to the stars, gazed beyond the veil of darkness, and glimpsed a shed of the truth... There, I saw a world cursed by human malice...
 Fischl: Only one who died the most agonizing of deaths could leave behind such a vengeful spirit...
 Fischl: We must interrogate the population! Find the doer of this diabolical deed! The one who created this sinister specter is the true killer!
 Mona: Sorry, I'm not quite following you... What curse? And what killer?
 Paimon: Ah... don't take every word she says too literally...
 Mona: (What's going on here? Why are the Traveler and Paimon frantically winking at me?)
Icon Dialogue Talk Fischl is full of, uh... enthusiasm.
Icon Dialogue Talk Fischl is full of, uh... mysteries.
 Mona: Oh... Oh, I understand!
 Fischl: Thou dost? Marvelous! The astral emissary understands at last!
 Oz: Mutual understanding is the crucial first step towards teamwork. Welcome to the team, Mona.
 Fischl: You are hereby appointed as an honored servant of the Prinzessin. Unleash thy power, in service of our solemn to dispel this darkness once and for all!
 Mona: Honored? Heh... You should feel honored to have found me! Without me, you'd be doing ten times the work for half the results.
 Paimon: Paimon likes you, Mona, you seem like the real deal!
 Mona: Hahaha, well I'm glad you agree! Feel free to keep the compliments coming.
 Mona: With my astrolabe, I have ascertained the trajectory of fate. Next, I'll calculate the locations of the fallen meteorites for you.
 Mona: I need to look into the constellation issue in more detail. In the meantime, let me know ASAP if you find anything else out.
Icon Dialogue Talk You're a star, Mona! Thanks so much!
 Mona: Don't worry about it. As far as the astrological aspect goes, this will be a piece of cake.

 Paimon: Hi Mona! Thanks to you, we've managed to get rid of loads and loads of meteorites!
 Mona: Ah, good timing! There's something i need you to do.
 Mona: Remember how I was saying that the meteorites belonged to someone's constellation?
 Mona: Theoretically, it's not possible for stars that are goodness knows how many light-years away to suddenly turn into meteors and fall out of the sky. But, however paradoxical it may be, this is the reality.
 Mona: If we want to get to the bottom of this, the best way is to find out whose constellation it was.
 Mona: Based on what you've told me, it seems that all victims of the meteorites fell into a deep sleep, and all of them dreamed of a snowy mountain.
 Mona: Now, we may not know which mountain this was — but we can safely assume that it's not Dragonspine. Otherwise, someone would have recognized it, right?
 Mona: Did everyone definitely have the same dream? And where exactly were they in the dream? These are the questions we need answers to.
 Mona: I need you to find out more detailed about the sleepers' dreams. The more information we have, the closer we can get to the truth.
 Paimon: Seems we should head somewhere with lots of people around.
 Paimon: That way, we should be able to find more victims to question.
 Mona: I need to stay in an undisturbed environment. So, I will leave the investigating to you.

 Paimon: Mona! We found some stuff out!
 Fischl: An ice-capped mountain looms over the world from far above the clouds... That is the place from which this burgeoning darkness proceeds.
 Mona: Ice-capped mountain? Is that all?
Icon Dialogue Talk It is the same ice-capped mountain in everyone's dream.
 Paimon: It's a really really high mountain that no one's ever seen before, and it's super cold up there. The sleepers are forced to try and climb to the summit, but they don't know why.
 Mona: Climb the mountain? To the summit?
 Mona: What sort of person would wish to reach the summit of that mountain? And how is their desire strong enough to exert an influence on others?
 Fischl: Perchance some poor soul lies there, buried in the snow, hounded to death on the mountain?
 Oz: Or... Some intrepid explorer was exceptionally keen to conquer that particular mountain.
 Mona: I'll do another reading!
(Mona's idle animation plays)
 Mona: Aha! I see something here... It's a little vague but I think I can get his name... Ah, yes! "Leonard"!
 Paimon: Wow, that was fast!
 Mona: Well, in case you'd forgotten... I am a genius!

 Mona: Any junior fortune-teller could have told you this, but... That man was a Fatui Harbinger! That was too close, how did you manage to get caught up with a guy like him?
 Oz: A Fatui Harbinger? Why, their wickedness knows no bounds!
Icon Dialogue Talk A Harbinger? Goodness...
 Mona: Whatever he was planning to do... He was heading straight for you.
 Mona: And he is an extremely powerful individual! I sensed it the moment I looked at him. He's far more powerful than you'd imagine.
 Mona: As much as it pains me to admit it...
 Oz: Surely his power cannot match that of the astrological genius of the century?
 Mona: I never said that...! His strength may exceed mine by a hair's breadth... But in astrology alone, he doesn't come close!
 Paimon: This reminds Paimon of something... We ran into some Fatui at Wangshu Inn, too!
 Paimon: What interest could the Fatui have in the meteorites?
 Mona: They must be plotting something.
 Mona: Hmm.. Maybe, just maybe...
 Paimon: Oh! The Fatui are the ones who caused the meteor shower in the first place! Was that it?
 Mona: Paimon, that was my line! Get your own!
 Paimon: Sorry... Paimon's mouth just works so much faster than everyone else's.
Icon Dialogue Talk Does the power to summon a meteorite strike really exist?
 Paimon: Yeah... Where'd they get the power to pull stars out of the sky!?
 Fischl: Ozvaldo Hrafnavines, what is thy opinion?
 Oz: I think that anything is possible, mein Fräulein.
 Fischl: So long as they can afford to pay the price, they will never stop sowing their seeds of destruction across the land... Fatui, your sins shall not go unremembered.
 Oz: I also believe that miracles can happen.
 Fischl: Astral emissary, you have performed admirably as a member of my retinue. I will dispatch my forces to protect you, and they will ensure that the encroaching darkness shall bring you no harm.
 Oz: She means me.
 Paimon: No need! Paimon thinks that our current lineup works just fine.. No need to fix it if it ain't broke!
 Mona: You underestimate me, Fischl! I'm far stronger than you seem to think.
 Oz: Mein Fräulein trusts no one more than yourself, my lady, she is simply concerned for your well-being.
 Mona: There's really no need. In any case, you're in a much more perilous position than I am. If anything, you need my protection.
Icon Dialogue Talk Mona, you're a good person.
 Mona: ...Huh? Wh—What're you saying that for?
Icon Dialogue Talk Fischl, you're a good person
 Fischl: Naturally!
 Mona: For now, we must deal with the new threat. My astrolabe tells me that a new meteorite has landed, and it's the biggest one yet.
(Upon entering the area)
 Mona: Looks like we made it here before the Fatui. There's no time to lose!
 Mona: This is the one.
 Oz: I sense an unprecedented amount of elemental energy within.
 Fischl: The very heart of darkness descends upon the world.
 Paimon: What do the Fatui want with this? Is it the elemental power?
 Mona: It's possible... But if that were the case, other life forms would surely be drawn to the meteorites' energy too.

 Fischl: Ahem! Most indeed... My dear attendants, I hereby charge the Ritter der Verurteilung with leading you out from the darkness, back into the realm of light.
 Mona: Who are you calling your "attendant..."
Icon Dialogue Talk Thank you Oz, and thank you Fischl.
 Oz: We will meet again. Once this matter is concluded, I propose that we all get a drink together.
(Oz and Fischl leave the scene)
 Mona: Well, now we're two people short.
 Mona: But let's not get hung up about that. The good news is, I've found something else out.
 Mona: I shaved some dust off the meteorite and used it to do another reading. It was actually really effective!
 Mona: These rocks have been around for hundreds, maybe even thousands of years. Leonard must have lived a very long time ago.
 Mona: The meteorites carry his will, and can pass it on others. In other words, centuries on from Leonard's life, and the strength of his will has not diminished one bit.
 Mona: A guy from the distant past with a burning ambition to scale the highest mountain... I'd be willing to bet that he was an adventurer, just like you.
 Paimon: An adventurer? That does explain his obsession with mountain climbing!
 Mona: Our approach so far has been too passive, and time has been against us every step of the way. We need to change our strategy, and we need to attack this problem at its source.
 Paimon: Paimon agrees! From now on, we need to put Leonard at the center of everything we do.
 Mona: Yes... Because if the meteorites carry Leonard's will with them, then it's precisely as Fischl said: the rocks are, in a sense, a curse...
 Mona: I'm a little incredulous, but it turns out her blind guess was actually spot on... Ugh, no, I'm a respectable astrologist, and I shouldn't stoop to that kind of criticism.
 Mona: Anyway. All we need to do now is remove the curse.
Icon Dialogue Talk Come on Paimon, let's go.
 Paimon: Okie-dokie!
 Paimon: Since we've got a historical adventurer on our hands, Paimon thinks we should pay a visit to the Adventurers' Guild.
(Talk to Katheryne)
 Katheryne: Our records show that there have been many adventurers by that name over the years, it is impossible to know which one you refer to.
 Katheryne: However, I do recall that there is a book in the library authored by someone called Leonard. Perhaps you should take a look?
(Upon checking Lisa's desk)
Icon Dialogue Quest Library Index
 Paimon: Author, Leonard... Where are you, Leonard... Aha! Gotcha!
 Paimon: The index says that Leonard's book should be in the north-west corner on the top floor of the library.
 Paimon: North-west corner... Should be right over there.
(Upon collecting Of Mountains and Seas book)
 Paimon: Found it! "Of Mountains and Seas", A Guide for Adventurers, written by Leonard!
(Observing the book of unreadable texts)
 Paimon: But the words have faded and there are even pages missing... Paimon's got no hope of reading this.
 Paimon: Darn... Maybe we're just wasting our time on this one?
Icon Dialogue Talk Don't give up. Let's see what Mona says.
 Paimon: Oh, right, yeah! Mona! She might have a better idea.
(Talk to Mona)
 Paimon: Look what we found, Leonard wrote a book!
 Mona: Ooh! Let me see!
Icon Dialogue Talk It's quite incoherent as there is lots missing.
 Mona: Hm! I could have predicted as much...
 Mona: Your average astrologist would definitely give up at this point.
 Mona: But I am Mona, progenitor of the future of astrology. Nothing can stand in my way.
 Mona: I simply need to deduce the missing portions with my astrolabe, write them in, and then decipher the text...
Mona studies the book intently...
 Mona: Phew! Finished at last...
 Paimon: So what does it say?
 Mona: Just as I thought, Leonard was an adventurer who lived two thousand years ago.
 Mona: His lifelong dream was to reach the summit of a mountain called Pilos Peak.
 Paimon: Two thousand years? So the constellation that caused the meteorites is from two thousand years ago!?
 Mona: Somehow, for some reason, this constellation was summoned down from the sky. I suspect that the Fatui have something to do with that part.
 Paimon: Paimon thinks so too. Whenever something shady happens, you can bet the Fatui are involved.
 Mona: The meteorites harbor elemental energy, which radiates out and lulls people to sleep by some means akin to hypnosis.
 Mona: And if I'm guessing correctly, there should be some sort of core meteorite among the bunch, within which is a crystal that harbors Leonard's spirit.
Icon Dialogue Talk How will we find it?
 Mona: Well, if I were Leonard, I would want to make sure the core lands right on the snowy summit that I never made it to while I was alive.
 Paimon: So the core should be at the top of Pilos Peak? Where is that? Paimon's never heard of it before.
 Mona: It's the first I'd heard of it too, so I compared the map from the book against the current topography of Mondstadt. Apparently, Pilos Peak no longer exists.
 Paimon: Are you trying to say that the tallest mountain Paimon's never heard of just... disappeared!?
 Mona: I once read somewhere that the Anemo Archon, Barbatos, once used his divine power to mobilize the winds and blow the ice and snow from the face of the earth. The whole landscape of Mondstadt was changed in the process.
 Mona: The mountains of that age were replaced by the vast stretch of ocean we see today. Still, a mountain that high? Drop it into the ocean and it'll still leave a trace.
 Mona: The summit still reaches just above the water's surface. So, the place known as Pilos Peak in Leonard's day is today known...
 Mona: ...as "Musk Reef."
(Upon entering the area)
 Mona: Ho? So this is Pilos Peak? Not much to show for itself now, eh?
 Paimon: Looks like someone beat us here.. Is this, like, a popular tourist spot, or...
 Paimon: Ah! It's you!
 Scaramouche: Ugh... Huh? You again?
Icon Dialogue Talk How did you find this place?
Icon Dialogue Talk Have you just woken up?
 Paimon: Look at the state he's in... Was he in that dream just now?
 Mona: He managed to extricate himself from the dream on his own strength? How is that possible?
 Scaramouche: Hah! Just because you are powerless to do something does not mean that I am.
 Scaramouche: You're too late, anyway. I've finished my research.
 Paimon: We knew it! This was all a dirty trick by the Fatui!
 Scaramouche: Save it. No more fun and games for me today. I'll come for you when I'm good and ready.
Icon Dialogue Talk Wait! What are you trying to achieve?
 Mona: You entered the dream they've all been having, didn't you? How much do you know about Leonard?
 Scaramouche: Leonard? Who's Leonard? ...Ugh, whatever! I have bigger fish to fry!
 Scaramouche: I've discovered something far more important... and far more terrifying.
 Paimon: What?
Icon Dialogue Talk What is it?
 Scaramouche: The stars, the sky... It's all a gigantic hoax. A lie.
 Mona: The stars are a lie? What are you talking about?
 Paimon: Is this some kind of astrological debate between you and Mona? Because if so, surely you can come up with a better argument than "The stars are a lie."
 Paimon: Seriously, who's gonna fall for that one when you can just lift your head up at night and see them up there, twinkling away?
 Scaramouche: Hah... Hahahahaha! Oh, you are so naive, it kills me!
 Scaramouche: Still... Can't really blame you. After all, I used to believe the same thing myself — up until a few moments ago, that is...
 Mona: A few moments ago? You mean...
 Scaramouche: Look — I really don't have the time to do this right now.
 Scaramouche: What was the Jester thinking? He must have had some inkling of what we might discover on this mission... Would it really have been so difficult to give me a little forewarning? Hmph, or maybe he just wanted to give me a fright...
 Scaramouche: Time for me to go out and find the truth. So long, suckers!
(Traveler enters into combat with Mona alongside against two Pyroslinger Bracers)
 Mona: Ugh, can you believe that guy? He calls us suckers, and then he just trots off!
 Mona: No one disrespects me, no one! Agh! Time to show them what you get when you cross world-class genius with pure, unadulterated rage!
(After defeating the Fatui agents)
 Paimon: Wow, you fought so fiercely!
 Mona: Told you! That's what happens when you disrespect me!
Icon Dialogue Talk Mona, you are a force to be reckoned with.
 Mona: You bet I am! Paimon, you agree too, right? Did I show those Fatui who's boss or what?
 Paimon: Sure did! Without you here, those guys would have caused us a whole lot more trouble!
 Mona: See! How do you like that, Harbinger! Scumbag...
 Mona: He seemed genuinely shaken, though. I don't think he was lying. I was always taught to talk about the "false sky" during astrological readings... Could there be more to such phrases than I have been led to believe?
 Mona: ...Ahem. I digress. Come on, let's finish the job we came to do.
 Paimon: The core has gotta be round here somewhere!
(Upon approaching the meteorite core)
Icon Dialogue Quest Destroy the meteorite core
 Paimon: Whoa, this must be the core... It looks totally different from all the other meteorites! It's way more... shiny.
 Mona: This stone harbors an unbelievable amount of elemental energy, and human desire. It's the core alright.
Icon Dialogue Talk Should we... destroy it?
 Mona: Yes. Otherwise, the victims will never wake up... This core is the root cause of everything that has happened.
 Paimon: Do it, (Traveler)!
(Cutscene plays, Leonard narrates)
Leonard: With ropes, we can scale mountains.
Leonard: With boats, we can sail the seas.
Leonard: By age 40, I had conquered every last domain
Leonard: Pilos Peak alone defeated me... as an adventurer, and well, maybe in other ways too.
Leonard: Now, I am approaching the end of my life.
Leonard: Many times I have sat and stared up at that peak as the boundless snow slowly engulfed me.
Leonard: It is a beast without weakness, the merciless face of the world.
Leonard: It fills me with fear... and when an adventurer loses courage, they can no longer climb mountains.
Leonard: My mountaineering days may be over, but I have a greater ambition now.
Leonard: Humans create tools to conquer nature, and when nature conquers them in return, they create better tools.
Leonard: Where our legs cannot take us, maybe our tools can. And when tools fail us, perhaps wings can carry us instead.
Leonard: My dear friend, I leave you my designs for the "Wings of Incompletion".
Leonard: Against the unknown, humanity stands as one.
Leonard: To be alive is to seek, to set foot in every place that the eye can see.
Leonard: I have little time remaining, though the wind has not yet come for my soul.
Leonard: But between us and your children, students, and friends, I believe someone will reach that place at last.
(Cutscene ends)
 Mona: Wow. Well, that was unexpected...
Icon Dialogue Talk A climber, determined to reach the highest peak.
Icon Dialogue Talk Determination so strong, he wished to pass it on to others.
 Mona: Who would have thought that human will can survive in the skies for millennia on end...
 Mona: Astrology really is an incredible thing!
 Paimon: ...What makes you say that?
 Mona: The ability to communicate with the stars can give you access to all the secrets from throughout human history... Though of course, very few astrologists ever reach that level.
Icon Dialogue Talk Mona, thank you ever so much for all of your assistance.
 Mona: Uh... What's with the formal tone all of a sudden?
 Mona: And speaking of formal tone... What is the deal with that girl, Fischl? She's a curious one.
 Paimon: Paimon thinks so, too! She's soooo... How to put this...
Icon Dialogue Talk She's full of weird and wonderful thoughts.
Icon Dialogue Talk She has a wild imagination.
 Paimon: Yeah... Although, if you think about it... Seems she was right all along.
 Paimon: Is she one of these people who uses the wrong method but still gets the right answer?
 Mona: You may well be right.
 Paimon: Even so, Paimon thinks that the most surprising thing of all was how Pilos Peak turned into a teeny-tiny little island!
 Mona: A mountain of yesteryear now sits as an island in the sea. Almost anyone from Mondstadt could reach it now, just by jumping in a boat.

 Paimon: There she is! And Mona, too!
 Fischl: Oh, welcome, welcome, most loyal attendants of the Prinzessin!
(An introductory note for Fischl appears on screen)
Fischl - Prinzessin der Verurteilung!
"I, Fischl, Prinzessin der Verurteilung, have descended upon this realm from mine Immernachtreich, as decreed by destined doom."
"Each and every day, mine familiar Oz and I observe every weft and weave of fate..."
Apologies, Ms. Fischl of the Adventurers' Guild can be... hard to understand at times.
I would like to remind you on behalf of the Guild that the "Fischl Dictionary" is there for you should you fail to comprehend her words. You may also ask her companion, Mr. Oz, for help.
Overall, however, Ms. Fischl is a most trustworthy investigator. I hope that you will work well together.
 Mona: Which one is it, "retainer" or "attendant"? Make up your mind...
 Oz: My apologies. Mein Fräulein tends to use exaggerated expressions when she's in good spirits.
 Paimon: Hey Fischl! You were looking for us, right? Sounds like the fun's started without us! What's got you in such a good mood?
Icon Dialogue Talk Nice to see you all again, it's been a while.
 Fischl: And so, the whisper of eternal night summons you back to my side. Splendid! What a blessed reunion, a boon from beyond the eventide! Come, partake of this joy with me, my subjects...
 Oz: Traveler, Paimon, it's a pleasure to see you again. Mein Fräulein and I extend to you our most sincere greetings.
 Paimon: Paimon wants to say a proper hello too, but Paimon has no idea how to, uh... partake...
 Mona: A normal person in this situation would simply say: "Hi Traveler, how have you been?"
Icon Dialogue Talk Fine, thanks.
 Fischl: Hmph! (Traveler) and I are like intertwined stars in the vast galaxy. You of all people should very well know the fate foretold by this meeting!
 Oz: Precisely! Lady Megistus, please refrain from such unimaginative utterances.
 Paimon: ...Lady M—Meg...? What now?
Icon Dialogue Talk Is that your new nickname?
 Fischl: Hehe, Lady Megistus has long since become a citizen of the Immernachtreich. She has been serving as Court Archmage under one's command for some time now.
 Mona: Ahem! That's just my surname, don't mind that... This is so embarrassing, hahaha...
 Mona: (Traveler), you're here because Fischl asked Katheryne to ask you to come, right?
 Fischl: Indeed so, my Archmage. Did even this appear in thy divination? Why, your powers are truly dangerous.
 Mona: Oh for the love of... No, of course not! You told me yourself that you'd left a message with Katheryne!
 Mona: Ahem! Excuse me... Anyway, in my case she practically beat the door down to get me to come along... Whatever she says, please don't be too astonished.
 Paimon: Ah, don't worry. We've been around the block, you can't faze us!
 Fischl: Oh, faithful servants! One's homeland, the Immernachtreich, which bears the darkest of all fates, draws near to this world once more. Stand with me in anticipation, for the glory of our kingdom is nigh!
 Paimon: ...
 Paimon: Wait, what...?
 Fischl: Indeed! Only one's most faithful envoys are fortunate enough to be privy to this great revelation. The Immernachtreich is near Mondstadt!
Icon Dialogue Talk Okay, I'll report this to the Knights of Favonius immediately!
 Oz: No, please, that will be most unnecessary!
 Mona: I know it sounds absurd, but there's actually something behind this, I promise.
 Mona: Basically, what Fischl means is—
 Fischl: Lady Megistus!
 Mona: Urgh, alright, alright! Honestly... Look at me, a genius astrologist, forced into a juvenile role-playing game...
 Mona: The truth is that yesterday, Her Highness encountered the Spark Knight, Klee outside of the city. Both being of great fame, they recognized one another instantly, and began to converse.
 Mona: It was already getting dark, so in that spirit of great compassion and care for which she is known, Her Highness personally accompanied Klee back to Mondstadt.
 Mona: On the way, Her Highness relayed to Klee the story of her origins. Upon hearing the tragic tale of the fall of Her Highness's homeworld, the tender-hearted Spark Knight inquired, with tears welling up in her eyes...
 Oz: "Oh no! Is the Immernachtreich really gone? Won't it grow back?"
 Fischl: "O mortal, your sovereign's heart is touched by thy sincerity and sympathy. But nay, the Immernachtreich is an everlasting realm, and one day, it shall make its reappearance."
 Oz: "Really? So how do we make your homeland grow back again? Oh, pwease tell me, pweeease, pweeeeease!"
 Fischl: "Since you inquire so earnestly... give unto me a tranquil haven, promise me eternal admiration, lend me both time and wind, and one shall revive one's homeworld."
 Paimon: Could you cut the re-enactment and just get to the point!
 Mona: In short, Klee gave Fischl an island to serve as the promised land where the Immernachtreich will reappear. I didn't believe it either at first, but then I saw this letter.
(Open Mysterious Letter)
Mysterious Letter
Esteemed Prinzessin of the Immernachtreich,
I am a witch who travels amidst the mountains and rivers of Teyvat.
I write to you, having heard from my young daughter that your kingdom has fallen and that you are searching for a way to restore it.
Amid the seas under a far-flung sky may the Golden Apple Archipelago be found.
If this masterless land can assist in the restoration of Your Highness's realms, that would be most wonderful!
 Oz: Providence has gifted mein Fräulein with an excellent opportunity. Esteemed Traveler, as mein Fräulein's cherished retainer, you deserve to bear witness to this grand moment with us.
 Paimon: This island looks kinda familiar...
Icon Dialogue Talk Um...ahh...
 Fischl: Traveler! Curtail thy umming and ahhing at once! The throne of the Immernachtreich calls for me. Come, be my blade, clear the way, and witness what is to come!
 Mona: I think she just wants to invite you along to the island with her. That being said, I have a feeling that I'll be better off not performing any divination where that island's concerned...
 Paimon: Huh? Why not?
 Mona: Klee is involved in this, which means her mother is probably involved, which means that old hag is involved... Ugh, thanks, but no thanks.
Icon Dialogue Talk What can I do for you, Your Highness?
 Fischl: You, who have traveled to the farthest reaches of the world, fathomed the celestial path of stardust in the palm of your hand, and witnessed raindrops converge and become one with the undercurrent of destiny... You, yes, you...
 Oz: ...Must chart the course that leads the way to the land promised to mein Fräulein by fate!
 Paimon: Ohhh. Fischl doesn't know the way there...
Icon Dialogue Talk I knew it...
 Paimon: Hehehe, since thou askethed for our help, Paimon can telleth you that we are good friends with the Spark Knight, Klee: The Guides of Destiny!
Icon Dialogue Talk Paimon, seriously...
 Paimon: (Traveler), come on, just play along!
Icon Dialogue Talk Very well! I am the one whomst hath traveled here from beyond the stars!
 Mona: Behold, the watcher, the guide, the weaver of dreams... (Traveler)!
 Fischl: Hahahaha! Excellent, most excellent!
A crowd of bemused Mondstadters watches on as this spectacle continues for another half hour...
 Mona: ...To sum up, Traveler, since you say you know the way, we'll let you take us to the island— I mean, the promised land.
Icon Dialogue Talk For the Prinzessin!
Icon Dialogue Talk Lady Megistus, leave it to me.
 Mona: Good, fine, done. Right, now — Lady Megistus needs to go home to pack her things and catch up on some sleep. Your Highness, your other distinguished selves, let's meet at the city gate at nine o'clock tomorrow morning.
 Fischl: Very well! Then it is settled. One blesses you with an undisturbed slumber, Lady Megistus. You too, Traveler.

 Fischl: Today is the day of one's reckoning with fate, as foretold by the night sky! Humiliations suffered in the past, the shame we have carried all these years, one bids you adieu! For today, it is time for... retribution!
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, if I may be so bold, that final phrase did not sound like one of your own.
 Fischl: Of course it wasn't. I just overheard it from someone in the city... Ahem! I mean, thy Prinzessin is merely drawing on the wisest and courageous sayings she has heard in the land, to signify the importance of this day...
 Mona: Hmm, let me see... Huh? It really is someone else's catchphrase...
 Paimon: Wow, you're here early!
 Mona: Hi!
 Mona: Who've you brought with you...?
 Paimon: Oh! Ahem! Allow Paimon to introduce to you a fabled wandering swordsman of Inazuma, and an enchanting musical talent of Liyue.
 Xinyan: Hey! I'm Xinyan, from Liyue. I like rock 'n' roll, sunny days, and good times.
 Xinyan: You must be the princess Paimon told us about? You sure do look the part! I hear you're from a faraway land — it's an honor to be in the company of dignitaries!
 Xinyan: And this lady over here... My family tells me that only the wisest scholars wear pointed hats like this one. Guessing that applies to you, too?
 Mona and Fischl: (Oh, I like her. She can stay!)
 Fischl: Xinyan, your gaze pierces the dark veil of night to arrive at the truth beyond. I am in need of one such as yourself. Very well, you shall be one's musician laureate.
 Mona: She's trying to say, thanks, you say all the right things! Um, and the same goes for me too. Pleasure to meet you. I'm Mona, an astrologist.
 Xinyan: Oh, well it's nice to meet you too!
 Paimon: Mona is amazing, she can find out everything about you by divination!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: A princess, an astrologist, and an articulate raven-retainer... In the company of giants, my humble self hardly deserves mention.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I am Kaedehara Kazuha from Inazuma. It is an honor to meet you all.
 Fischl: What ho, Kazuha, divulge thy epithets and thy vocation.
 Oz: Oh, mein Fräulein would like to know where you work, and what your field of expertise is.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Um... I'm afraid I'm just another wanderer...
 Paimon: This guy is an expert in the sword arts. He parries blades that none have ever parried before, and strikes like lightning! Mere mortals could not hope to comprehend!
 Fischl: (What? Is he really that powerful!?)
 Mona: Let me take a look... huh!? Oh, oh my...
 Mona: Hi, Kazuha, I'm absolutely delighted to meet a great swordmaster like you. Could we ask you to be our guard while we're on the island?
 Fischl: One hereby declares you Captain of the Royal Guard of the Immernachtreich.
 Oz: For even Lady Megistus to praise your skills, you are surely one of rare talent.
Icon Dialogue Talk Lady Megistus is absolutely right!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Okay, Lady M—Meg...
 Xinyan: Lady M—Megi... what?
 Mona: Just call me Mona! Stop calling me that weird name.
 Paimon: By the way, Lady Megistus, we found out how to get to the promised land.

 Paimon: Look, everyone! Here's our vehicle.
 Mona: ...
 Mona: Somehow, I suddenly don't feel like going anymore.
 Xinyan: What a... unique little thing. Looks kinda like Guoba, doesn't it?
Icon Dialogue Talk ?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Guoba... is he the magical creature at Wanmin Restaurant? Now that you mention it... it does look quite similar.
 Paimon: Uh... to be honest, even Paimon isn't so sure this can take us to the island after all...
 Fischl: ...Hm.
 Fischl: I see... I see. Only by meeting the lowliest of ends can we arrive at the Immernachtreich born anew.
 Fischl: Haha, behold, the doorway cloven by Thundering Retribution... by such means as I once descended into this realm to bring retribution do I now venture into the next. Come, Oz! Lead the way!
 Oz: I will enter first. Mein Fräulein need not worry.
 Paimon: ...He's in... and now he's gone!
 Fischl: Why... this truly is the path of retribution that leads to the promised land!
 Mona: Maybe I should just do a quick reading for safety...
 Paimon: Lady Megistus, it's fine! This is Alice's creation, it's totally safe! Spare yourself the trouble, just come with us.
 Mona: Oh right! I completely forgot...*sigh* Alright.
Everyone exchanges glances before, one by one, stepping nervously but excitedly into the "Dodofortress"...
The journey is an eventful one... and maybe a little crowded...?
 Paimon: It's so dark in here. Um, can someone turn on a light? Hey! Quit pushing!
 Mona: Come on now, let's all try and stay... Ow! Fischl! You're treading on my hair!
 Fischl: I thought it was a snake!
 Xinyan: Ahh! We're flying!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Everyone, be careful!
 Xinyan: Whew, we finally landed! What was that all about...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: What a beautiful place. The wind is soft and the ocean is calm... And a pleasant scent blows on the breeze.
 Paimon: Yup! Paimon's feeling way better already now that we can see the ocean!
 Fischl: ...
 Oz: An ocean of life, and a land filled with flora... Mein Fräulein, we have finally arrived at the promised land, whence we shall revive the Immernachtreich.
 Fischl: ...O faithful retainers, this is the blessed paradise that one has been searching for. Here is where we shall witness the culmination of all things!
 Fischl: I, who command the darkness, shall lead you to yonder gate of dreams.
 Mona: ...
 Fischl: ...shall lead you... to yonder gate of dreams!
 Mona: ...
 Mona: Your Archmage Megistus thanks you for your kindness, Your Highness. In this moment, I offer my blessings to the Immernachtreich.
 Xinyan: Mona... wh—what are you, uh...
 Mona: Don't ask, just follow my lead!
 Xinyan: Oh... oh right! Praise be to the Prinzessin, who has led us here to this sacred place!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: My sincere gratitude to you for inviting me to join you on this trip, Your Highness.
 Fischl: Your happiness gladdens one's heart. Ah... how it delights me to bring us all together here at this most monumentally fateful of moments.
 Fischl: Now, as I take my first step on this pilgrimage, I shall perceive this ocean of life with my own earthly vessel. After all, this is where my soul belongs.
 Fischl: On the contrary, Lady Megistus, blessed as you are with the great power of Hydro, one yet finds too many impurities in thy soul... Mm-mm.
 Oz: Mein Fräulein means Lady Megistus is perhaps not the most talented swimmer.
 Mona: ...Fischl, that's enough!
 Mona: I'm happy enough to join in with the play-acting without complaining, but how dare you ridicule my genius? Think you can swim better than me? Hah, I'll bring you to your knees, young lady!
 Oz: Oh my! Mein Fräulein, steel yourself, mein Fräulein!
 Paimon: Oh yeah! Swimming race, swimming race! Whoever comes in last is a rotten egg!
 Fischl: Challenge accepted! Heed my words, lowly Lady Megistus, you shall pay for your foolishness for as long as you live!
 Mona: Ridiculous. I've never lost a single swimming race in my life. Bring it on! First one to run to the beach wins!
 Xinyan: Are they serious? Running? I thought they were gonna swim.

  Paimon: We're back!
 Mona: Just in time! So (Traveler), Paimon, who do you think the real swimming champion is? Me or Fischl?
 Fischl: Haha! Utter my supreme name, and see how Lady Megistus the presumptuous is reduced to bitter tears!
Icon Dialogue Talk Uh, I'll go with whoever Paimon says is the winner.
 Paimon: Oh no you don't! Don't put this on Paimon!
 Oz: Oh wise Paimon, surely you can discern who the true winner is.
 Fischl: Lady Paimon, the time to show your loyalty is nigh.
 Xinyan: Wait, wait wait wait! Shouldn't Paimon get some food in her first? Poor thing looks starvin' after such a long trek out!
 Paimon: Ohh! Thank you, Xinyan!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Yes, we did walk quite a long way.
 Xinyan: Right? While you were off doing your own things, I caught us some seafood and picked us a few fruits. They taste real good barbecued!
 Mona: Now that you mention it, I'm getting a little peckish myself...
 Fischl: Ahem! I, too...
 Xinyan: Well there's plenty to go around, so dig in! I can't say I've got the culinary skills of my chef friend, but I promise you'll at least eat your fill!
 Paimon: Ooh! Time to eat!
 Oz: Inviting Lady Xinyan here was an astute decision indeed.
 Paimon: Paimon's done talking, you guys carry on if you wanna go hungry!
 Mona: Ah, I love that barbecue smell... This tastes amazing.

 Fischl: The mortal temptations stopped the truth in its tracks, denying the verdict of my victory the chance to be announced in my presence.
 Mona: Wow, I'm surprised you have the nerve to bring that up again.
 Mona: You and Oz are like two peas in a pod, trying desperately to convince (Traveler) and Paimon that you were the victor. I hardly see how that's fair.
 Mona: Besides, only the loser would want to get—
 Fischl: Say that again?
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, she means to say that you are the loser.
 Fischl: Silence, Oz!
 Fischl: Ahem... Lady Megistus, let us put aside the sacred matter of our trial for now. Once I have reclaimed my throne in the Immernachtreich, we shall settle this for good in the Garten Sanssouci!
 Mona: Oh, that's fine by me, I'll beat you no matter how many times you ask for a rematch... wait, but what is that place, exactly?

 Paimon: So in other words... we suddenly gained the ability to understand you? How strange...
 Squirrel: Maybe you've gained some intelligence. Congratulations.
 Mona: So, you're finally awake, (Traveler)? Time to rise and shine!
 Paimon: You're back!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Yes, we went for a little walk. The enchanting scenery and pleasant weather here soothes the body and mind.
 Oz: Everything is fine, except that some places are a little peculiar...
 Fischl: Hohoho! The servants of darkness have descended. Rejoice, for the return of the Immernachtreich is nigh!
 Oz: Mein Fräulein means that this is an unexpected development, and she has never seen anything like this before.
 Paimon: No, that's not even close to what she said!
 Oz: My apologies. Please take that as my own opinion.
Icon Dialogue Talk What happened?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: After last night, there have been some... unusual spectacles on this island.
 Mona: Yes. Swimming birds, flying squirrels, the sun and moon in the sky together... Some of these sights only lasted for a moment, but that doesn't make it any less bizarre.
 Xinyan: I heard a strange flapping sound on the island, but didn't see a single flying creature around.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: There was also a peculiar floral scent on the wind. Though there are many flowers on this island, that scent did not resemble any of them.
 Xinyan: Seems to me like whatever these things are, they aren't visible to the naked eye...
 Mona: I tried to perform a divination, but my scryglass showed only a chaotic mess that was impossible to decipher.
 Paimon: Oh, Paimon has a bad feeling about this... What have we gotten ourselves into...
 Fischl: Hmm... I had resolved to summon the Immernachtreich in this land, but now we observe these puzzling phenomena... Could this be the spawn of the condemned, trying to thwart my sacred endeavor?
 Paimon: Wait, (Traveler)... you don't think Alice could be behind all this, do you?
Icon Dialogue Talk ...
Icon Dialogue Talk It's not impossible.
 Paimon: But if it really was her, it wouldn't make sense to do all this...
 Squirrel: Hahaha, look at them, old chap, seems we scared the pants off them!
 Fantastic Boat: Aye, well, they've never seen anything like this before.
 Fantastic Boat: This old boat's sailed all over the briney seas in its time, and tried talking to many a sailor, too. But in all that time, not a single person has ever spoken back.
 Squirrel: Exactly. If it weren't for this environment, who would've thought humans would be able to chat with us?
 Paimon: This environment? What do you mean by that?
 Mona: The environment... Could it be that... the environment is what's interfering with my divinations?
Icon Dialogue Talk Feels like...
Icon Dialogue Talk I might be still dreaming.
 Paimon: Uh... even if you were...
 Paimon: Dreams aren't supposed to become reality, right? And a dream won't make you suddenly understand boats and squirrels... Aah!
 Xinyan: What's wrong?
 Paimon: Look! Over there!
(A cutscene plays)
(The sky turns dark and purple)
(A ruined tower flickers in and out on an isle)
(As lightning flashes across the sky, a castle does the same on Twinning Isle)
(Red maple trees appear on Pudding Isle)
(Kazuha holds out his hand to catch a maple leaf, but it passes through his hand and fades away)
(The weather returns to normal and cutscene ends)
 Kaedehara Kazuha: An illusion? No... it felt too real to be an illusion.
 Mona: Those things we saw flickering in and out, that's exactly what I saw earlier this morning!
 Fischl: Does this mean... the Immernachtreich... is real?
 Xinyan: Wait, what?
 Fischl: Ahem!
 Fischl: Hehe! Behold, the Immernachtreich has come, just as your Prinzessin had prophesied! Come, my people, a new chapter awaits us!
 Oz: Indeed, mein Fräulein. We all have witnessed this miracle with our own eyes, and now is the time to celebrate the creation of a new world! Rejoice!
 Fischl: Hahahaha, welcome to the Immernachtreich!
 Paimon: She looks so happy, Paimon doesn't have the heart to interrupt her right now...
 Mona: She doesn't seem surprised in the slightest. Does that just come with being an experienced adventurer, or...?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: If this isn't an illusion, we ought to go and investigate.
 Xinyan: I got an idea. If you hurt yourself in a dream, you wake up right away, don't ya?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Hmm? Yes, you have a point.
 Xinyan: Right? So c'mon, Kazuha, hit me.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Uh... I'd rather not... How about you hit me instead?
 Xinyan: But that'll hurt real bad.
 Paimon: Hey! There'll be no need for any of that!
 Paimon: Just leave it to us! Hey (Traveler), can Paimon hit you?
Icon Dialogue Talk ?
Icon Dialogue Talk What are you talking about?
 Fantastic Boat: Haha, I like yer senses o' humor, me hearties. An illusion? So, talking boats and squirrels are just an illusion to humans, huh.
 Squirrel: Now, now, it's understandable, old chap. Haven't you heard? As humans grow older, they forget many important things and lose many of their abilities.
 Fantastic Boat: Aye, so they do... A pity, to be sure. Thinking back, in all those years I spent sailing with the fleet, I would've never imagined that one day I'd be laughing over something like this.
 Fantastic Boat: Well then, me lads and lasses, don't you want to take a wee gander at all the places you're so curious about?
 Paimon: Of course! But how do we get there?
 Fantastic Boat: Look! Here!
 Mona: At what?
 Fantastic Boat: Blimey, at me, of course! Oh, that's right, I forgot to introduce myself. I'm the smartest ship you'll find in all these parts! The name's... argh, just call me whatever takes yer fancy.
 Paimon: Don't you have a name?
 Fantastic Boat: That I do, I just can't remember it. All I know is that I came here from Inazuma.
 Paimon: In that case, Paimon shall name you... "Miitoboru"! How's that? All the other ships in Inazuma seem to have names ending in "ru," too.
 Fantastic Boat: Miitoboru? Haha, that'll do nicely.
 Miitoboru: You're lucky to have met me. I can sail through the choppiest seas with ease, there isn't a wave out there that can capsize me! So...
 Miitoboru: Come aboard, and I'll take you wherever you'd like to go!
 Squirrel: Ah, how very kind of you, old chap. Unlike that Anemo Archon who abandoned us here.
Icon Dialogue Talk The Anemo Archon?
 Squirrel: You know, the Anemo Archon of Mondstadt.
 Squirrel: Don't you know? Some of these islands used to be Mondstadt's mountaintops. Once upon a time, the Anemo Archon sliced them off to neaten the place up, and chucked them into the ocean.
 Squirrel: My great-great-great-great-great-great... great grandfather was on one of the mountaintops, and got sent flying here along with it. Wretched Anemo Archon!
 Paimon: How could that happen!
 Squirrel: And we've been living here for generations since then, haha. Fortunately, there were a few other squirrel families that got stranded on these islands as well, so we built ourselves a kingdom here.
 Squirrel: The good thing is that there are no predators or competitors around. All the pinecones on this island are ours for the taking. The bad thing is... we're stuck here.
 Paimon: Didn't see that coming... Sounds like the Immernachtreich is a kingdom of squirrels!
 Fischl: Hold thy tongue!
 Oz: Paimon, please do not make such slanderous statements. The Immernachtreich is, of course, a kingdom of night ravens.
 Miitoboru: Hey, lad, yes, you! You're from Inazuma, aye? That makes us brothers, haha. Every young lad of Inazuma has to pluck up the courage to set sail on an adventure one day! So, are you coming?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: To set sail... is to leave one's homeland and travel far away.
 Miitoboru: Aye, you need lots of courage and just a dash of heartlessness. 'Cause once you leave, you may never return. But if you stay, you're forever a prisoner in your own heart.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...Huh. Inspiring words, Miitoboru. And you're right. The wanderer's spirit runs in my blood. I'll go with you.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: My friends, are you coming too? I want to take a look at the strange phenomena on that island.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Also, I smell ancient timber and waterproof varnish on this boat... The scent is indeed from Inazuma, so I believe he speaks the truth.
 Mona: Hmm... what does everyone think?
 Fischl: Oz, lay down the gangplank! Thy Prinzessin shall take to the seas!
 Xinyan: Let's all go! It'll definitely be an experience.
 Miitoboru: Haha, great! Aaand we're off!
 Squirrel: Safe travels!
(Talk to Squirrel)
 Squirrel: Hey friend. Your eyes betray your thoughts - you still look very bemused.
 Squirrel: Oh, come now, do you see me acting surprised at the sudden arrival of you and your party? Well then. I'm sure we can get along quite amicably.
 Squirrel: If you want to know where the most scrumptious pinecones are, come find me anytime!
 Squirrel: Ah... Mondstadt. I wonder what it's really like...
(On boarding the waverider)
 Miitoboru: Good going, lads and lassies! Miitoboru admiers your bravery.
 Miitoboru: How long have you been here? Oh, it's not your first time? Haha, well I never.
(Approach the island)
 Miitoboru: We're almost there! Please take all yer personal belongings with ye, and mind your step as you disembark!
 Paimon: Look! There's something over there!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Wow, it's...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Let's take a closer look.
(Approach the Bonsai Pot)
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Well, I certainly didn't expect to see you here.
 Xinyan: This is a bonsai pot, right? It's nice, but it looks like it's been a little neglected.
(If "True Tales of the Violet Garden" was not completed‍[verification needed])
 Kaedehara Kazuha: This bonsai... was in my family for many generations. Sadly, it ended up in a Tenryou Commission warehouse in my generation.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Haha, one thing you might not know about my past is that I spent some time as one of Inazuma's most wanted fugitives. I suspect this bonsai was confiscated during my long time on the run.
 Fischl: Fugitive...
 Mona: *sigh* ...Life throws all kinds of hardships at us. I doubt a single person in this world lives a truly carefree life.
(If "True Tales of the Violet Garden" was completed)
 Kaedehara Kazuha: This bonsai... was in my family for many generations. I saw it once in a Tenryou Commission warehouse, but it looked quite different from how it does now.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: At that time, there was a withered tree inside.
 Mona: Why would someone keep the plant in there if it's dead?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: It's a way of sending a secret message. It indicated that there was something hidden inside the flowerpot.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: There was a letter buried down at the bottom, which told of an ancient secret in my clan. I did not take the bonsai with me after reading the letter, which means it should still be in the warehouse now.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I wonder who removed the plant and placed the pot here...
 Xinyan: So the bonsai pot belonged to your ancestors? Seems a shame to leave it empty like this.
 Xinyan: Hmm, Kazuha, what do you think about maybe putting a little something inside it?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Alright.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Though I still don't understand why it has appeared here, I can give that a try.
 Paimon: Eek!
(A domain transition occurs)
 Paimon: Paimon knew it wasn't gonna be that simple.
Icon Dialogue Talk Where's Kazuha?
 Paimon: Huh? Oh yeah... everyone's here... except for Kazuha!
 Xinyan: Kazuha! Where are you? Are you okay?
 Paimon: No response. Well, let's keep an eye out for him.
 Mona: Look at the decor here... it's like the inside of a grand mansion. I don't think this is a perilous maze — it's somebody's home.
 Fischl: Most curious. What secrets lie within this place, I shall surely uncover.

 Xinyan: Looks like a letter Kazuha wrote while he was traveling.
 Mona: What a sad letter...
 Fischl: ...Lord Kazuha...

  Xinyan: I heard an old man say something about the "Kaedeharas"...
 Mona: Sounds like it might be Kazuha's grandfather.
(Listen to the second Melodic Omamori)
 Kaedehara Hisamichi: Listen carefully, Kazuha. A Kaedehara blade is not forged for the purpose of harming people.
(Listen to the third Melodic Omamori)
 Kaedehara Kageharu: Father, what are you carving?
 Kaedehara Hisamichi: Haha, it's a rock garden. I'm modeling it after the scenery I saw on my travels abroad. It'll go in my bonsai later.
 Kaedehara Hisamichi: Work has been so busy these years, I've barely had a moment to spend with my grandson. I hope he doesn't take after me... when he's older, he should get out there and see more of the world.
 Oz: I believe the other voice belongs to Lord Kazuha's father.
 Fischl: Oh? I see... We have ventured into Lord Kazuha's memory.
(Approach Kazuha)
 Xinyan: Oh there you are!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Huh? Where did you all go?
 Paimon: This place is a maze! We all got trapped inside, except for you.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I've been stuck in this room the whole time, and can't seem to find a way out. I have to say, this place looks a lot like my childhood bedroom.
 Paimon: If this is your home, why would you be trapped here? Is the maze trying to keep you out?
You tell Kazuha about everything that just happened...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: It appears that this whole maze is modeled after my family home. And all the conversations you heard in there are in fact words once spoken by my father and grandfather.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: You said that the maze is trying to keep me out... Indeed, I'm the only one unable to explore this place.
 Mona: I think these unusual structures are some kind of mirage. According to what Kazuha said, all this seems to be constructed based on Kazuha's memory.
 Fischl: But why should Lord Kazuha be the only one excluded?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...Maybe that comes from me, too.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: To me, what is past is gone. Everything in the world is guided by its own rules, and as for people... we can never relive the past.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I think that this belief is the reason why the mirage was keeping me out.
 Xinyan: I can get behind that. It's a very sensible way of looking at things.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: All our thoughts have consequences. I don't consider it strange, and I don't think it's anything you should be worried about.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Hmm... we got in here by touching the bonsai, didn't we? So perhaps if we touch it again...
(A domain transition occurs)
 Paimon: We're back!
 Xinyan: Hey, look, that whole mountain's changed completely.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ... Wait.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Everyone, I might have an explanation. The changes in the mirage could be related to the bonsai.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: My father once mentioned that this pot was originally part of a collection belonging to my great-grandfather. He adored his bonsai and always took great care of them.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: When our family fell upon hard times, my grandfather traveled far and wide, looking for a way to save the clan. However, during that time, my great-grandfather became gravely ill.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: He knew my grandfather had no interest in bonsai, so before his death, he gave most of his carefully crafted bonsai away. This is the only one he retained.
(If "True Tales of the Violet Garden" was completed‍[verification needed])
 Paimon: To hide the letter with that secret in, right?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Yes, and to give his son something to remember him by.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: My grandfather returned as quickly as he could, but my great-grandfather had already passed away. They never got the chance to say goodbye to each other before the end. After that, my grandfather would spend long periods of time standing in front of this bonsai, lost in thought.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Eventually, he started to make his own bonsai. Unlike his father, he preferred arranging rock gardens instead of plants.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Perhaps influenced by my grandfather, my father also took a liking to crafting bonsai. Back then, our courtyard was filled with all kinds of them.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: And this flowerpot was passed down to me as a family treasure.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: It's certainly no coincidence that it appeared here and became the entrance to the mirage. It's almost as if... it's giving me a chance to make up for past regrets.
Icon Dialogue Talk Regrets about what?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: There was once a time when the Kaedeharas were an illustrious clan in Inazuma.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: After the Raiden Gokaden incident, our clan's fortunes took a turn for the worse. By the time of my generation, our downfall was complete.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Later, I fled Inazuma as I didn't want be arrested. With no one left in the Kaedehara Clan, the authorities confiscated everything in our home, including this bonsai.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Like my ancestors before me, I think I'd like to try it out for myself... recreate a favorite scene from my travels and place it into this pot.
 Mona: ... *sigh*
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Since the contents of this bonsai affect the mirage, I'd at least like to try my hand at making something.

 Fischl: ...Alas, the loftier the clan, the more devastating the fall.
 Mona: Broken into pieces, and not a single soul around... This must be the way things ended.
 Xinyan: C'mon, let's get movin'.

 Paimon: Kazuha! We found you!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Good timing. I was just reflecting on my life so far, and I think I'm all up to date.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: So, what do you think of the Kaedehara Clan's bonsai?
Icon Dialogue Talk Looks like it carries lots of history.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Old things often carry around some form of regret. The Kaedehara Clan is no exception.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: But that's okay. Partings produce reunions, if not at home then in a distant land.
Icon Dialogue Talk Things weren't perfect, but you have nothing to feel ashamed of.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Indeed.
 Mona: This mirage is quite fascinating. It presents life like a stage play, with each scene more captivating than the last.

 Fischl: ...
 Mona: Hmm? What's wrong? You don't look too good.
 Fischl: Nothing. Perhaps today's arduous journey is making me feel slightly out of sorts.
 Oz: ...
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, are you alright?
 Fischl: Oz, curb thy curiosity.
 Oz: Yes, mein Fräulein.
 Mona: ...?
 Xinyan: I'll see if I can find something for us to eat. Go ahead and rest if you're feeling tired, but anyone who's up to it is welcome to help out.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I'll help.
 Mona: Me too.
 Paimon: Everyone's volunteering to help! Maybe we should too!
Icon Dialogue Talk Count us in.
 Xinyan: Whoa, hey, I appreciate the enthusiasm, but...
 Xinyan: Her Highness looks kinda gloomy. Mona, you two seem close, why don't you keep her company for a while?
 Mona: You noticed it too. I was going to bring it up with you while we were preparing the food. In that case, yes, just leave it to me.
 Xinyan: Alright! We'll prepare the food!
Mona gives you a wink, then runs to stay with Fischl. Everyone else collects cooking ingredients...
 Xinyan: Yup, this should be enough. We can grill these. Next time we pass by one of those abandoned campsites, I'll see if they have a cooking pot. We'd have some more variety then.
 Paimon: Wow, that's such a nice idea! You might not be a chef, Xinyan, but you sure do know how to keep the diners happy.
 Xinyan: Aw shucks, Paimon. It's no big deal, just doing what I can!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Even the crew mates of The Alcor consider Xinyan someone they can rely on.
 Paimon: We feel the same way about you, too, Kazuha!
 Xinyan: Hahaha, we sure do.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Hmm... Well then, as a trusted friend, I have something I'd like to talk about.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: From what you've been saying, that miraculous mirage seems to have been based on my life story to date.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...It felt just like a dream to me.
Icon Dialogue Talk Maybe that's it. Maybe it represented your dreams.
 Xinyan: In other words... you've always wanted to make your own bonsai, right?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Could that be it...? All that was a means of granting me something I wished for?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: And since this happened to me, does that mean it could happen to everyone else, too?
Icon Dialogue Talk Yes, I think so.
 Xinyan: I agree. But I wonder whose mirage we'll encounter next?
 Xinyan: Hah, I'm actually kinda looking forward to my own mirage, if it's a dream come true like you say.
 Paimon: Wait, you actually want something like this to happen with you, too?
 Xinyan: Aw heck, any mirage to do with me would probably be music-related. Hahaha, it'd be a good chance to showcase a few tunes!
 Paimon: You mean you'd wanna do a performance in there!?
 Xinyan: Why not? I don't think any self-respecting musician could stay silent on these islands. Just look at this place!
 Paimon: So much confidence and optimism! Xinyan rocks...
 Paimon: Oh, uh, (Traveler)! Paimon wants to try some of the fruit growing on that cliff over there. Let's go pick some!
Icon Dialogue Talk (Oh? Is this about...)
Icon Dialogue Talk Carry on without us, I need a moment with Paimon.
(Approach the marked area)
 Paimon: So, those strange houses today, huh... And a... a mirage-bonsai? Basically, lots of weird stuff today! Do you think we should tell Venti about it?
Icon Dialogue Talk I thought you were gonna ask me that.
Icon Dialogue Talk Let's give him a call.
Dodocommunication Device: Dodoco! Dodoco!
Dodocommunication Device: Dodoco! Dodoco! Dodoco!
 Paimon: There's no answer... That's weird, why is he ignoring us?
Icon Dialogue Talk This doesn't seem like him...
 Paimon: Maybe he got distracted? Or he forgot to bring the bomb to his performance? Or maybe he got drunk and fell asleep under that huge tree...
 Paimon: Hmm... maybe we should try contacting him tomorrow.
 Mona: Traveler, Paimon. So here you are.
 Paimon: Mona! Are you all done chatting with Fischl?
 Mona: Hahaha, close enough... She was a little downcast. I think it has something to do with the mirage we saw today.
 Mona: Fischl has been very excited about this trip from the start... but I have a feeling she doesn't want to see her own mirage...
 Paimon: Why? It seems like this'd be the kind of thing she really enjoys.
 Mona: ...I'm not sure at this stage, but I'll keep an eye on her.
 Mona: There's something else I wanted to tell you. I tried performing a divination again on the beach.
 Mona: My scryglass was still blurry, but I felt a force coming from within. I couldn't see its exact position, but I knew that it was changing.
 Paimon: How could you tell that if you couldn't see it clearly?
 Mona: Hmm, how can I explain this concept to non-experts... Oh, I know! It's like we're sitting in a room and there's a crack in the walls. We don't know where it is, but everyone can feel the wind rushing in.
 Mona: Not only that, but the room is getting colder.
 Paimon: Ohh! Paimon gets it now! So you wanna find where that crack is, right?
 Mona: You could say that. I need to see the crack first before deciding what to do next.
(If the Unreconciled Stars event quest Where Ancient Stars Align was not completed)
 Mona: ...When we set foot in this picture-perfect place, I never would've imagined we'd be dealing with such a mystifying occurrence.
Icon Dialogue Talk How do you feel about it?
 Mona: Fine, I suppose. I could use some help though.
 Paimon: What do you need us to do?
 Mona: Um...
 Mona: Uhh... nothing, actually.
 Paimon: What? Are you underestimating us!?
 Mona: No, I just realized that although you never talk much, you do so much for us all, quietly, in the background.
 Mona: You're the companion everyone needs. I think we're all very relieved to have you here.
 Mona: I know putting high expectations on you might give you some unwelcome pressure, but... I like to think an astrologist's observations can yield insights outside the night sky alone, and noticing other people's strengths is a kind of observation, too.
 Paimon: So you just wanted to compliment us?
 Mona: I was simply stating the facts, not complimenting anyone.
Icon Dialogue Talk Hmm, so you can't admit...
 Paimon: ...that you're actually complimenting someone!
 Mona: Stop smirking at me! I told you, it was an objective evaluation, not a compliment! Not a compliment!
 Mona: I'll keep observing the stars. Stay in touch, (Traveler).
(If the Unreconciled Stars event quest Where Ancient Stars Align was completed)
 Mona: ...Seems like similar things happen every time I'm with you. I'll attempt divination, read the signs, zero in on the target, then solve the problem.
 Mona: You're surrounded by all kinds of friends, secrets, and destinies. It's incredible.
 Paimon: No, you're incredible! You helped Fischl and us solve that Leonard situation.
Icon Dialogue Talk Is this a good thing for an astrologist?
 Mona: All things considered, I suppose. Let's hope we can all stick together and resolve this, like we did last time.
 Paimon: When you say together, do you mean the two of you, or all three of us?
 Mona: Pff...
 Mona: Okay, okay, the three of us then! Sometimes, Paimon offers an insightful perspective that can be very helpful to me.
 Paimon: Really? Paimon's starting to like you a lot, Genius Astrologist Mona!
 Mona: Yes, that's the perspective I'm talking about! You'll never meet another astrologist as clever and charming as me, ohohohoho!
 Paimon: Yeah, everything about you's great, except for, um... please don't laugh like Fischl again... ever.
 Mona: Ahem! Sorry... Heh, friends' habits rub off on you when you spend a lot of time together, don't they... haha... hah...
 Mona: I'll keep observing the stars. Keep in touch, (Traveler).

 (Talk to Mona)
 Mona: Hmm... I wonder what's really going on with my scryglass...
 Mona: Leave all further observations to the expert! I'll inform you if anything comes up. Mm-hmm, nice working with you.

 Kaedehara Kazuha: Judging by that look on her face... there was probably something on her mind.
 Xinyan: We tried sending Mona to comfort her, like before... but she said Mona doesn't understand the work of the Adventurers' Guild, and can't go with her.
 Paimon: She didn't even make up some excuse about the Immernachtreich to get some time alone? That's out of character for her.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Then she must be feeling quite troubled.
 Mona: I'd love to help her as a friend... but she was right about one thing. We're going to explore another island today.
Icon Dialogue Talk Oh? Is that so?
 Paimon: Yup, votes are in, it's unanimous.
Icon Dialogue Talk But I wasn't there for the vote!
 Xinyan: Oh, yeah, about that... Paimon went ahead and voted for you. She said since you're always together, her opinion counts as yours, and vice versa.
 Paimon: Hehe, well, you are an adventurer, after all. Paimon knew you'd wanna go exploring!
(Traveler): (Aah, Paimon... well, guess it's happening now...)
 Mona: Fischl said there's something she wants to investigate, and suggested that we all go ahead in the meantime. She told me not to worry, she'll catch up with us when she's done.
 Mona: Despite her... quirks, she's still an experienced adventurer. I think we should trust her.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I haven't known her for long, so this is just an observation, but... it seems like she's struggling with some internal conflict.
 Paimon: Hmm, that seems about right...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: In conflict with others, you either resolve it or let it be. But when the conflict is within yourself, it's much harder to do either.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...I've also had a time like that in my life, so I understand what she's going through. It may be best to give her some space.
 Xinyan: I agree. Still, it's a pity for today's adventure. Adventuring is always more fun when everyone's together.
 Paimon: Xinyan always has great team spirit...
 Xinyan: Oh, one other thing. This morning, we saw a mirage on the island in the north. We can go take a look once you're done with your breakfast, (Traveler).
(Approach the marked area)
 Paimon: This island looks pretty normal.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...I smell something burning on the wind.
 Mona: Ugh... my scryglass is getting clearer, but I still can't see much...
 Xinyan: Hey, look what I found!
 Xinyan: It's a... well, is it a drum, or a plant?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: An instrument made of a plant? Hmm...
 Mona: Xinyan, do you think this could be your island?
 Xinyan: Oh, you mean this instrument could have been put here just for me? Okay, let me give it a try...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Hold on. When I touched the rock garden in the bonsai yesterday, we were all transported to another space. Xinyan, do you want to take some time first to get ready?
 Xinyan: You're right, but it's all good. I'm always ready to make some music!
(On entering the domain)
 Paimon: *cough* *cough* Paimon just got a mouthful of dirt...
 Xinyan: Paimon, are you okay?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Just as we thought... we've been sent to another place.
 Mona: Why does this place feel so bleak? ...Xinyan, are you sure this is your mirage?
 Xinyan: I think so, yeah, but... you're right, why is it so bleak here?
 Paimon: Look, there's something really bright over there. It's almost like it's inviting us to go check it out.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Okay, let's go have a look.
 Paimon: Wait, wait, wait! This is too obvious. Surely it's gotta be a trap?
 Mona: That may well be, but there's also nowhere else for us to go.
Icon Dialogue Talk Indeed...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: If this mirage belongs to Xinyan, I don't think we will find any traps there.
 Xinyan: Now you're talking! You know that wouldn't be my style.
 Paimon: Hmm, that makes sense. Alright, let's go then, but let's also make sure to be careful.
(Approach the marked area)
 Mona: The door is locked.
Icon Dialogue Talk Mona, do that thing where you turn into water, and slide under!
 Mona: Keep your nonsense to yourself, thank you very much.
Icon Dialogue Talk Kazuha, lift yourself into the air and jump over it!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...Let's keep thinking this through.
 Paimon: Xinyan, why did you lock the door?
 Xinyan: You'd think I'd know this... Haha...
 Xinyan: Oh, actually... I usually put my key under the flower pot next to the door. So... maybe the key is nearby.
 Paimon: Oh! Is there a flower pot around here?
Icon Dialogue Talk There are no pots, but there is... a flower.
 Xinyan: I guess it's worth a shot.
(After activating the Melodic Harp)
 Paimon: Uh, I hear music.
 Xinyan: This place really is dedicated to music.
(After opening the chest)
 Paimon: Wow, so we did get the key from the plant! The puzzles in Xinyan's mirage seem way easier than Kazuha's.
 Xinyan: Well, his life experiences are far richer than mine.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Haha, you flatter me.
(Approach the giant flower)
 Paimon: Wow, that flower is huuuge!
 Mona: It's so hot here... is it because of that flower?
 Blazing Heart: Heck yeah, I wasn't expecting visitors.
 Paimon: Aaaah!!! It talks!
Icon Dialogue Talk So did the squirrel from yesterday.
Icon Dialogue Talk So did the boat from yesterday.
 Paimon: Paimon knows! But this is different!
 Xinyan: Hi, we touched those drum-like plants growing on the beach outside, and were transported here. Are you the owner of this place?
 Blazing Heart: This is the hall of music, and I'm merely its gatekeeper. Tell me, my friends, are you here to pursue the ultimate expression of music?
 Xinyan: Ohh, you betcha!
 Blazing Heart: Then tell me, what do you hope to express with music?
 Xinyan: The spirit of resistance!
 Blazing Heart: Right on, great answer! I'm so glad to hear that. I consider myself very lucky to meet another musician with the same ideals.
 Paimon: Even giant flowers get along well with Xinyan...
 Mona: People who are easy to get along with make friends wherever they go.
 Blazing Heart: If you've made it this far, you must wish to venture deeper into the hall of music. However, I must apologize. My singing voice is required for entry, but unfortunately my pipes are a little dry...
 Xinyan: Are you alright? Do you need... uh, some cold medicine or something?
 Blazing Heart: It's just that I haven't had any Glacial Spring Water in a very long time. If I could drink some of that, my voice would be rocked and loaded, and ready to clear your path.
 Xinyan: Glacial Spring Water?
 Blazing Heart: Yeah. With one sip of that, anyone could sing the most beautiful song, no matter if they were a weary adult, a sleepy bird, or even an ignorant child...
 Xinyan: ...
 Xinyan: Okay, I'll find some for ya. Where is this spring?
 Blazing Heart: Thanks, you're the best! Well, spring water helps plants grow up strong so that they can scale the mountains that lie in their way... so, I imagine the spring can be found somewhere on the mountain range protected by plants.
 Paimon: You mean we have to go hiking? Oh, Paimon thought some seawater would be enough.
 Mona: Spring water and seawater could not be more dissimilar.
 Blazing Heart: Oh, but you may need my powers in order to see the spring. Give me your hand, friend, so that you can see through my eyes.
 Xinyan: Thanks! You shook my hand — guess that makes this friendship official!
(A scene transition)
 Paimon: Oh, we're out!
 Xinyan: It's much brighter here. I didn't mind that hot cave, though.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Glacial Spring Water can be found on one of the mountains around here. Let's all look for it.
 Mona: Wait, how can there be light coming from below the ground here? Is this... a water vein?
 Xinyan: According to that flower, the water vein is related to the plants, and the plants will lead us to that spring. So I guess we should follow the water veins.

 Paimon: This should be the Glacial Spring Water we're looking for.
 Mona: So if you drink this, you can suddenly sing like an angel?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: You should give it a try, if you're curious.
 Mona: No no no, I'm terrible at singing... it would be extremely embarrassing if it didn't work.
 Xinyan: Haha, Mona, I actually think you've got a sweet voice that's well-suited for singing! If you're interested, I can teach you a few things about vocals once we get back to camp.
 Mona: Really? I—I'd love to, but you'd have to promise you won't laugh at me.
 Xinyan: Of course not! Everyone's gotta start somewhere, right?
 Mona: R—Right... then maybe I can give it a try.
 Xinyan: Great! But before that, we should deliver the spring water to that flower.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Well, to re-enter the mirage, we just need to touch the drum on the beach again.

  Mona: Argh, I'm going to lose my hat...

  Uncle Zhu: Xinyan, my dear child, why are you playing that crass instrument again? It's not ladylike.
 Jixiang: Oh, Xinyan, your mother has asked me to teach you some embroidery when I can find the time. It's an elegant and enjoyable craft. Just come to Auntie's house whenever you're free.
 Uncle Hai: Quit making that racket by the side of the road! If you have to play, play something classy!
 Paimon: Wh—Why are they being so mean!?
 Mona: Ugh, these people...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...
 Paimon: ARGH! That's it! Why are you not yelling back? What happened to your rock 'n' roll spirit?
 Xinyan: Hehe...
 Paimon: And now you're laughing!? Aren't you mad?
 Xinyan: Sometimes it's hard to get mad when you hear the same thing a hundred times. Still... thanks, Paimon.
 Paimon: ...Uh what?
 Xinyan: Auntie Jixiang, how are you doing?
 Jixiang: Oh, dear child, I've been waiting to hear from you for a long time. This weekend, I'll be free...
 Xinyan: Auntie, stop thinking about me for a hot sec, your stove is still on, and you're cooking soup, right? Hmm... you see, it's all burnt.
 Jixiang: Oh! How did this happen!?
 Xinyan: Oh my, Uncle Zhu, Little Zhu is playing in the mud by the river again! Didn't you tell him to not do that?
 Uncle Zhu: What? That rascal is up to his old shenanigans behind my back again, is he? Oh, well, we'll see about that!
 Xinyan: Hehehe...
 Xinyan: Sorry, Uncle Hai, I'll move my stage someplace else. But, your musical taste needs to evolve if you wanna keep up with the times.
 Xinyan: Maybe you didn't know, but even the most famous opera singer in Liyue likes listening to my boorish music.
 Uncle Hai: What did you say? Is that true? You're not making this up, are you? Huh, I'll have to look into this.
 Mona: They're all gone...
 Xinyan: See? Knowing the right words to say and when to smile can solve almost any problem.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: If that's the case, then what's your rock 'n' roll spirit for?
 Xinyan: My rock 'n' roll spirit isn't something I just use to win an argument. That'd be a real waste.
 Xinyan: Rock 'n' roll is a revolution! Transforming your identity and destiny, saying goodbye to concessions and cowardice... it does them all. And most importantly, it lets you do it with art rather than words!
 Xinyan: My rock 'n' roll has an unbreakable spirit, like a flame in a rainstorm that refuses to go out, or the magma that never stops boiling under the surface of the land.
 Xinyan: Okay, let's go.
 Xinyan: Let's go that way! There's a side path right there.
 Mona: What a great mindset you have. If anyone ever called me anything less than a genius, I'd be furious.
 Paimon: Really? Paimon is tempted to give it a shot... Eeek! Mona is glaring at me!
 Xinyan: Paimon, there's a difference between embracing the spirit of rock 'n' roll and playing with fire...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: To tell you the truth, I'm also starting to develop an interest in rock 'n' roll.
 Xinyan: Seriously? This'd better not be a joke.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: No, I'm serious. Rock 'n' roll's ability to cultivate such a strong will in people is an incredible thing.
(Approach the door)
 Paimon: Hey, is that...
 Mona: Another door. More delightful individuals await us on the other side, I assume?
 Xinyan: Let me handle it. Piece of cake.
 Little Fei: Miss, your hairstyle is really strange.

 Kaedehara Kazuha: It was all just a misunderstanding.
 Xinyan: Well, sometimes that's just what friends do. If my friends had ditched me to plan a surprise, I'd have gotten upset too.
 Mona: Is that a hint for us to prepare a surprise for you, too? Very clever...
 Xinyan: No! I was just speaking my mind...
 Mona: Hehe, I know. I was just joking... seeing if I could give you a fright.
(A loud stomach growl is heard)
 Paimon: Uh... everyone... Paimon's hungry...
Icon Dialogue Talk That rumble had no business being that loud!
 Xinyan: It's almost lunchtime, so how about... we have lunch at my house? It's not far from here.
 Paimon: So even your house is in this mirage?
 Xinyan: Yep. I just noticed, there's the same road in here as the one that leads to my house in real life.
 Xinyan: Even though we're in a mirage, I reckon some things will always remain the same. In real life, after a bad quarrel with the neighbors, or a disappointing show...
 Xinyan: The one place I'll always go is my house. Because... everyone has to go home eventually.
(On entering Xinyan's house)
 Xinyan: Here we are. Please come in! Make yourselves at home, no need to take off your shoes!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Thank you for your hospitality.
 Mona: Oh, chairs! We can finally unwind for a bit.
 Xinyan: Huh? Did you guys hear a sound coming from the other room...? You all keep resting here, I'll go have a look.
(Xinyan enters the room)
 Xinyan: The lights aren't even on, and there's no one— woah!!
 Xiangling and Yun Jin: Dun dun DUN!!! Happy Birthday!
 Xinyan: What are you two doing? Why are you sitting in the dark inside my house? You scared the bejesus outta me!
 Xiangling: Yun Jin, you were totally right. She does get spooked!
 Yun Jin: It's your birthday, so we planned a surprise party for you.
 Xinyan: You girls really shouldn't pull these pranks while pretending to be all sweet and innocent...
 Yun Jin: Eh? Come on now, what's wrong with that? Who says that being cute and innocent means you can't pull pranks? Back me up, Xiangling?
 Xiangling: Totally, Yun Jin! Guoba pulls pranks on me all the time, too.
 Xinyan: Alright, alright, you win.
 Xiangling: Beidou needs to do something today, so she's asked me to bring some gifts along from her, for you.
 Xiangling: So here they are! A custom-made dagger, and the score of a composition from abroad!
 Yun Jin: As for my offerings, I had these gold hairpins and iron hair ties custom-made for you by my family.
 Xinyan: Iron hair ties!? You're telling me that your family used their one thousand years' worth of experience to make... hair ties?
 Yun Jin: What's the problem? Hair ties may look simple and unassuming, but they actually require a lot of intricate craftsmanship to make!
 Xiangling: Hehe, my gift is one-of-a-kind. A little while ago, I came across a bespectacled blacksmith on the street. The way he worked and talked, it felt almost like he could see right through stones.
 Xiangling: I was skeptical, so I asked him to help me make a bet, and when the merchant cracked the stone open, there was indeed a piece of raw jade inside! Hehe, I took the jade on the spot and ground it into a pendant, which I then strung on a cord. You can use it as an accessory.
 Xinyan: Wow, you made a jade pendant for me?
 Xiangling: Yeah! Oh, don't wear it around your neck! Put it on your guitar! Every day, I see how much you pamper that guitar, so I thought you should jazz it up a bit.
 Xinyan: I don't know if I can bring myself to hang this thing anywhere except in a display case on an altar! Thank you, Xiangling. You're so thoughtful.
 Yun Jin: Hehe, Xiangling has always been thoughtful. But the blacksmith you mentioned who could see through stones... can you tell me more about him? If the story's interesting enough, I might have to put it into my play.
 Xiangling: I'm not exactly sure, but I hear that he was sick for a while, and was so disoriented during that time that he couldn't remember anything, and felt as if his body didn't belong to him...
 Xiangling: And then, all of a sudden, he recovered! He's all fine now, except for some reason, he can now tell the difference between valuable and worthless stones just by looking at them.
 Yun Jin: Hmm... that's certainly peculiar.
 Xiangling: Let's not get into that. The food is getting cold. Let's eat!
 Yun Jin: Wait, Xinyan, didn't you pick up a trick from an outlander merchant? The one you taught me on my last birthday.
 Xinyan: Hmm? Oh, you mean making a birthday wish?
 Yun Jin: Yes, that's the one. They also light candles and cut cakes in other regions, but we didn't have time for that, because we were too busy bringing the food over.
 Xinyan: It's fine, I can just use my imagination.
 Yun Jin: Okay, let's count to three and you can make a wish.
 Yun Jin: One...
 Xiangling: Two...
 Yun Jin: Three...
 Xinyan: Hmm, what should I wish for this year...
 Xinyan: My wish is...
(The domain is automatically exited with a scene transition)
 Xinyan: Oh, I'm back?
 Paimon: What happened? Paimon was just peering through the crack in the door.
 Mona: Given that we are in a mirage, Xinyan, did anything significant happen inside the house?
 Paimon: Paimon knows, Paimon knows, she ran into some of her friends who were throwing her a birthday party!
 Mona: Yes, I heard all that! I mean something she did herself.
 Xinyan: ...Oh! I made a wish.
 Xinyan: It's pretty interesting, now that I think about it. When I entered the room, I found Xiangling and Yun Jin, two of my best friends!
Icon Dialogue Talk They are my friends too.
Icon Dialogue Talk They're both well-known in Liyue.
 Xinyan: That actually happened in real life. They paid me a surprise visit on my birthday, set a table with delicious food, and persuaded me to make a birthday wish.
 Mona: Xinyan, what was your wish?
 Xinyan: My wish was to "perform with someone completely unexpected."
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Hmm, I wonder who this unexpected person might be?

 Paimon: We've done everything we can, but how do we deal with the last two mountains?
 Xinyan: Let's stick to it. There's gotta be a way.
 Mona: After taking a closer look, it seems to me that most of the island mountains contain water veins and plants in their interior. Those together form a system that connects the mountains with one another.
 Mona: However, now that much of the mountains have collapsed, the connection of plants and water veins is blocked.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: If we can dredge all the blockages, we will be able to connect the islands to form the giant instrument described in Albedo's notes, and play music using the islands themselves.
 Xinyan: Yep, for me to reach my goal, we gotta do this... But first, I'd like to consult the flower. It should know what to do.
(A scene transition occurs)
 Xinyan: Some of the plants and water veins on the island mountains have been lost. Do you happen to know another way to dredge the blockages?
 Blazing Heart: I know someone who can help you with that. Go ask my companion, Frozen Soul, who lives upstairs.
(Approach Frozen Soul)
 Frozen Soul: Who are you, and what brings you to me?
 Xinyan: Nice to meet you. We were wondering if we could use your power to dredge the mountains on the island.
 Frozen Soul: Mountains? Oh, I see... you want to become great musicians too, right?
 Paimon: Oh? Is that what this is about?
 Xinyan: Correct.
 Frozen Soul: In that case, we seek the same thing. Despite my frailty, I feel obligated to share some of my power with you.
 Frozen Soul: Plant my petal at the ending point of the intersection of melodies, and what had once sunk into the earth will re-emerge with the music. As long as there is music, life will continue to flourish in this world.
 Xinyan: ...Thank you.
(A domain transition occurs)
(After planting Frozen Soul's Petal)
 Mona: Okay, this ought to do the trick.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: There is a sound coming from the island.

Xinyan: ...Phew.
 Xinyan: How was it? Not bad, huh?
 Mona: Quite impressive.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I've never heard a duet like that before. It was very interesting.
 Paimon: And so elegant as well! Paimon's not sure how best to put it... But it was just super unique.
Icon Dialogue Talk A performance with a lot of personality.
Icon Dialogue Talk A performance with a lot of charm.
 Xinyan: Hehe, thank you.
 Xinyan: And now I can say my wish has come true.
 Mona: Is there anything else you'd like to do?
 Xinyan: No, in fact, I reckon I'll get a good night's sleep tonight.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Does this mean everyone is free for the time being? If so, I have a suggestion.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I'd like to return to the Fatui camp, and see what's going on there.
 Mona: Oh? So you've discovered the Fatui camp as well.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Wait, you know about it too?
 Mona: Of course, I'm a genius astrologist. Didn't I mention that my scryglass has recovered a little? I can sense what's going on here through divination.
 Xinyan: Uh, I didn't know the Fatui were here too.
 Mona: Indeed. I also informed Fischl of this when we parted ways today. If she runs into them, she'll stay hidden and out of danger.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I see, then perhaps we should tell everyone what we know.
You tell everyone about the Fatui camp and the strange machine you found on the day you arrived...
 Mona: A strange machine, and delirious Fatui...? Are you suggesting these are connected to the mirage?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I can't say I'm certain, but I don't believe they are completely unrelated.
 Xinyan: Fair enough. Let's go check out the camp.
(Approaching the Fatui machine)
 Paimon: Whoa! Where did they come from!?
(After defeating the opponents)
 Paimon: It's strange that on our way here, we've only run into local monsters, and no Fatui.
 Mona: How bizarre... there are still signs of the camp, and the machine is still here, but all the people have vanished.
(Traveler): (This machine must have something to do with the mirages. Sure, it's broken, but maybe that itself is the cause.)
(Traveler): (...But if the machine can cause people to hallucinate, why did they vanish? Is there anything else going on?)
(Traveler): (Did they disappear, or are they hiding from us?)
 Mona: I give up — I'm just going to divine the answer.
(Mona attempts a divination)
 Mona: ...
 Mona: What's this...? Some kind of energy flow?
 Mona: Sorry, everyone, I can't seem to find any trace of the Fatui. My scryglass has gotten hazy again, but this time, I can sense some sort of energy converging and taking physical form.
 Mona: The destination is... the island over there.
(Mona looks at Twinning Isle)
 Xinyan: Whose mirage will it be this time?
 Mona: Hmm... let's head over and have a look. Maybe we'll be able to find something there.
(Approach the marked area)
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Here we are.
 Mona: Huh? Fischl?
 Fischl: ...
 Paimon: It's really her! Hey, Fischl—!
 Fischl: ...Hmph, my imprudent retainers, you've finally arrived.
 Oz: O—Oh my, long time no see!
 Xinyan: It hasn't been that long, has it?
 Oz: Ahem... Mein Fräulein and I sensed a peculiar aura, and came here ahead of time to reunite with everyone. We weren't expecting you... Well, what I mean to say is, you arrived sooner than we expected.
 Paimon: Is it just Paimon, or does Oz seem nervous?
 Fischl: The advent of the Immernachtreich is imminent, and I still need to prepare for the consecration.
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, are you sure you—
 Fischl: I am quite capable of acting on my own, Oz. If you're weary of the encroaching darkness of the night, you're quite welcome to return to the blinding brightness of the day.
 Oz: Please, mein Fräulein, do not say such things. I am your loyal attendant, your eyes, and I will never leave your side.
 Fischl: ...Stop staring at me like that! A—Anyway, the time of explanation... is not yet upon us, hmph!
 Oz: Oh, mein Fräulein!
 Oz: I do apologize, everyone. Mein Fräulein is having a rough day — please do not take it to heart. I must also excuse myself now.
 Mona: ...Huh, still no improvement in her mood, even after all this time away from the group.
 Mona: As soon as I saw Fischl, I realized that the mirage that's about to take shape here must have something to do with her.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Yes. I, at least, felt a peculiar sense of familiarity when I approached my mirage.
 Xinyan: Me too. Even though it didn't really make sense, I just had a feeling that something exciting was gonna happen.
 Mona: Exactly, if Fischl and Oz can also sense something, then our suspicions are likely to be right on the Mora... Fischl's probably agitated because she doesn't want to confront her mirage.
 Paimon: How come?
 Mona: Maybe her mirage conceals some secrets that she doesn't want anyone to know about.
 Mona: Let's all take a rest here for now. When the mirage appears, we will get to the bottom of this mystery.

 (Talk to Mona)
 Mona: What kind of mirage would Fischl not want to confront?
 Mona: Could it be... that a swarm of phantoms will emerge, each claiming to be the true Fischl von Luftschloss Narfidort, Soveregn of the Immernachtreich, and ruler of the Ashen Darkness...
 Mona: And then they'll immediately start arguing with each other in their completely incomprehensible language... eek.
 Mona: Forget that, I shouldn't scare myself...

 Paimon: Are you awake?
Icon Dialogue Talk Ugh... It's morning again...
Icon Dialogue Talk What's up? Has something happened?
 Paimon: It might sound hard to believe, but no. Nothing's happened.
 Xinyan: You're awake? Then let's bring you up to speed: We've searched everywhere, and found nothing unusual at all.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Based on the previous two mirages, we should have been able to find something that acts as an entrance.
Icon Dialogue Talk That's weird.
 Mona: Is it possible that the time has not come yet?
 Xinyan: You mean, we should wait a little longer?
 Mona: Yes. Plus, Fischl is still nowhere to be found, and I highly suspect that she's even more eager to find the entrance than we are.
 Mona: So let's wait. Let's give the mirage... no, give Fischl some more time.
Everyone agrees with Mona and takes a break. Then, they continue the search in two groups.
After numerous round trips with little success, something finally appears on the beach.
 Paimon: There's something on the beach!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: A book? And next to it is... hmm... a raven statue?
 Paimon: This statue looks a lot like Oz...
 Mona: Why did these two items appear together? Did the raven bring the book here?
 Xinyan: What's the book about? Is it a diary?
 Mona: Let's see... "Hymn of the Holy Land"? I've never heard of a book by that title.
 Paimon: From the cover, it looks like... it was written by Fischl herself?
 Xinyan: That would certainly fit her personality. "Hymn of the Holy Land"... interesting, I like it.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: As a title, it has a sacred ring to it.
 Paimon: So what should we do? Should we touch it?
 Mona: ...Fischl's still not back.
 Mona: Never mind, let's head inside first. Once Fischl finds the book, I'm sure she'll be able to catch up with us.
 Paimon: Paimon agrees! It's like we're peeping into her diary, so Paimon's sure she'll wanna come in and stop us.
Icon Quest Step Step Description
Fischl has not yet returned, so the party decides to explore the island first to confirm if there is indeed a mirage here as the divination result indicated, and to whom it belongs. Soon, everyone finds a night raven statue, along with a mysterious book that it has brought here — "Hymn of the Holy Land." Upon touching the book, you and the others enter the mirage within...
(Upon entering the domain)
 Narrator: "Though this truth has long faded from popular memory, scholars have long known that Prinzessin Fischl von Luftschloss Narfidort first descended upon the world during the Time of Chaos, roughly six hundred years before the Era of the Saints."
 Mona: What? A narrator?
 Xinyan: We really are inside a book, huh. There's even a narrator telling us the story.
 Paimon: Oh no, the path has been cut off. We can't go across.
 Mona: There's a device over there that appears to be waiting for us to approach it.
 Paimon: Is it just Paimon, or does everything in this place seem just a little bit over-deliberate?
 Mona: Well, it is the Holy Land, what did you expect...
 Paimon: Yeah, everything's so blatant... it's clearly begging to be noticed.
 Xinyan: That's our Fischl for ya!
 Narrator: "The Prinzessin harbored much sympathy for all living things, and wished to never see them in pain. She harnessed the power of darkness and dreams to weave the night, and gave it the task to safeguard all living things."
(After solving the first Gaze of the Deep puzzle)
 Narrator: "The people celebrated and worshiped the Prinzessin's authority, and followed her call to migrate to the sacred land that would eventually be known as the Immernachtreich."
 Paimon: It really is the Immernachtreich!
 Mona: Mm, it really looks the part... I'm quite impressed.
(After crossing the first bridge)
 Narrator: "We established a nation on the Holy Land, revered the Prinzessin as The Absolute One, and introduced poetry, theater, and adventure to the Kingdom, laying the groundwork for the Immernachtreich."
(After repairing or crossing the second bridge)
 Narrator: "When the rain finally ceased, the Prinzessin descended from the palace steps, as to allow all her retainers to behold her unparalleled glory."
(Approach the marked area)
 ???: Help! Heeeelp!
 Paimon: That was a cry for help! Who could it be?
(Approach the marked area)
 ???: Someone, please, help me!
 Paimon: Uh, isn't this a statue?
 ???: Please don't refer to me like that! My name is Leon, and I am a knight of the Immernachtreich.
 Paimon: A knight? But you don't look like one...
 Leon: You can't tell? Anyway, please don't speak ill of Sire Ozvaldo. He personally designed and distributed the armor for Die Nachtraben Ritter.
Icon Dialogue Talk "Sire Ozvaldo"?
 Mona: (Traveler), you must have heard that one before, surely? Oz's full name, "Ozvaldo Hrafnavins."
Icon Dialogue Talk I remember.
Icon Dialogue Talk Well, now I know.
 Xinyan: Oh... So "Megistus" was the easy pronunciation...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I agree.
 Mona: Haha, or so it seems...
 Leon: Dear friends, I apologize for interrupting your lovely conversation, but I believe you haven't been informed that the gate ahead has been locked.
 Paimon: Yup, that's news to us.
 Leon: I'm hoping you'll be kind enough to save me, and in exchange, I'll gladly teach you how to unlock the gate.
 Mona: Well, I guess we'll have to save you then.
(After helping Leon leave the cellar)
 Leon: Valiant heroes... No words can express how grateful I feel right now. Thank you very much.
 Leon: Remember, this is the password that unlocks the gate. "May my people be freed from the shackles of ancient decrees."
(Interact with the barrier)
 Paimon: "May my people be freed from the shackles of ancient decrees."
(After repairing the path to the tower)
 Narrator: "The Great Sekretär, the lords, and the devoted Nachtraben Ritter mounted the tower to pledge their allegiance to the Prinzessin, kissing the hem of her exquisite purple dress and taking pride in their loyalty."
(Approach the book)
 Paimon: Looks like it's a dead end ahead. There's only a book.
 Xinyan: Do you think what we just heard is the story from the book?
 Mona: So the "Holy Land" in the book's title refers to the Immernachtreich. This book sings the praises of the Prinzessin from the perspective of the people in her kingdom.
Icon Dialogue Talk I guess this is kind of an autobiography...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: We're on the last page of the book, but the story doesn't seem to have ended.
 Paimon: What happens next? Paimon wants to know what happens next!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I guess we'll have to keep exploring. As for this book... wait, I have an idea... Now that we've finished it, let's close it.
(Upon closing the book)
 Mona: Huh? We've been transported again, but we're not back on the beach.
 Paimon: We are somewhere in... Mondstadt.
 Fischl: Greetings, Honorable Kaiserin der Verurteilung.
 ???: Amy, dear, I've made Steak and Fisherman's Toast. Come on, eat up before they go cold.
 Fischl: Ahem! Mother...
 ???: Oh, look at me, being so forgetful. Ahem! Dost thou knowest, Prinzessin der Verurteilung, that the hour of luncheon encroaches?
 Fischl: Of course, Mother.
 ???: Ah, behold the view from the window, a delight to the senses! Prinzessin, Kaiserin, would you care to join the Kaiser der Verurteilung for a grand royal picnic? We shall enjoy the scenic view and partake of the delicacies granted to us by the heavens.
 Fischl: Yes, I shall gladly join you!
 Mona: ...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...Oh.
 Xinyan: Uh... does anyone wanna say anything about that?
Icon Dialogue Talk ...
 Xinyan: Okay, I'll bite. So "Amy"... that's Fischl's real name?
 Paimon: Seems like it. The other two voices were probably her mom and dad.
 Mona: ...Why are all of you giving me that look!?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Forgive me if this comes across as rude, but... is your surname truly Megistus?
 Mona: Hmph, you think I was bluffing? My full title is and always has been "Mona Megistus, the Astrologist."
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...My apologies.
 Xinyan: Don't you think that's a bit long?
 Mona: Well, it's a special case. Only geniuses get titles like this.
 Paimon: Well, that makes no sense...
 Mona: What are your thoughts on the scenes we just witnessed?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Well, it seems that "closing the book" is one way of affecting change in this mirage.
 Xinyan: Well, I think it's sweet that Fischl's parents are willing to play along with her.
 Mona: They probably didn't indulge her forever. Based on the voice, this was surely a memory from her childhood? It's a different story now she's grown up.
 Paimon: You know a lot about Fischl, Mona!
 Mona: After all, we've been friends for quite a while.
 Mona: Speaking of...I wonder where Fischl is now?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: That voice mentioned that she was heading out. We may as well go outside, and see if we can find anything.
(Upon leaving the room)
 Paimon: Oh, we're back.
 Paimon: Wait, why are we back? We haven't finished the story yet!
 Mona: This feels as awful as purchasing a counterfeit astrology tutorial, or realizing you've forgotten your wallet in the middle of dinner...
 Paimon: ARGH!
 Mona: Argh! This is torture!
 Xinyan: I think they're a little bit upset.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: To be honest, I also don't like to read books that end on an unexpected cliffhanger.
 Xinyan: Haha, no one likes that. Alright, let's enter the mirage again.
 Paimon: Good idea! Let's go!
 Xinyan: ...Eh?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: We're still here, it's not working
 Xinyan: That's odd. We were able to enter earlier, but now, we can't.
 Mona: Why!? Why are we being denied the opportunity to finish the book!? This is pure sadism!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Hmm... Maybe it's because we've already reached the end of this book.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Before leaving the mirage, we saw that the book had been flipped to the final page. I believe "Hymn of the Holy Land" is divided into multiple volumes.
 Paimon: It's like one of those sneaky light novel marketing schemes... "If you want to know what happens next, please buy the next volume." Yuck.
 Mona: Hmph! I have to see the ending.
 ???: Oh, oh, yes, the ending. Everyone wants to see how the books ends.
 Mona: Huh? Who's there?
 ???: Oh, oh, heavens above, she saw me. Stand up straight, stand up straight.
 Mona: You're...
 ???: I'm "Ask-Me-For-Directions Arnold".
 Paimon: That name's a little on the nose!
 Mona: So, Arnold, let me ask you something...
 Arnold: It's "Ask-Me-For-Directions Arnold"!
 Mona: ...So, Ask-Me-For-Directions Arnold, let me ask you something!
 Arnold: Yes, Ma'am!
 Mona: Are there other volumes of "Hymn of the Holy Land"? Where can I find them?
 Arnold: Oh, oh, you're asking the right person. "Hymn of the Holy Land" is the sacred scripture of the Immernachtreich. There are three volumes in total, with the other two stored in two high locations in the castle.
 Arnold: If you wish to find the second volume, you must climb to the very top floor of the tower.
 Mona: Tower? You mean, that tower over there?
 Arnold: That is, indeed, the tower where the sacred scripture is stored. If you look closely to the cave right over there, you'll find a secret passage that will swiftly take you to the tower.
 Mona: Okay, thank you, Arnold.
 Arnold: It's "Ask-Me-For-Directions Arnold"!
 Arnold: Do you have any other questions for me, fair maiden? Concerning, perhaps, my relationship status, or monthly income...?
 Mona: No! Goodbye!
 Mona: Let's ignore that raven and proceed! There's a secret passage in the cave ahead that leads directly to the top of the tower.
 Arnold: Oh, oh, but Ma'am! Are you sure you're not interested in me? I only shared with you the secrets of the Immernachtreich because of your great beauty! Ma'am! Wait...!
(Talk to Arnold again)
 Arnold: Why did the lady appear so irritated? Did I say something inappropriate? Oh, what must I do to win her heart?

 Solemn Raven: Hey, stop! Who are you?
 Severe Raven: You don't look like citizens of the Immernachtreich. Explain yourselves! What's your purpose here?
 Paimon: This place even comes with guards!
Icon Dialogue Talk Don't panic.
 Paimon: Uh... What are you doing?
Icon Dialogue Talk We are personal retainers of the Prinzessin.
Icon Dialogue Talk We've traveled through the sea of stars to get here.
 Solemn Raven: How can you prove that you are Her Highness's retainers?
 Mona: Hmph, such an absurd question betrays your ignorance.
 Mona: "May my people be freed from the shackles of ancient decrees."
 Severe Raven: Th—That's the password of the Immernachtreich! They really are Her Highness's retainers!
 Solemn Raven: Oh my goodness. We didn't know! Please forgive us...
 Paimon: Now step down!
 Solemn Raven: Y—Yes, we're leaving now...
 Paimon: They are gone.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: This is the second volume of "Hymn of the Holy Land." Everyone ready?
 Paimon: Bring it on!
(On entering the domain)
 Narrator: "However, the Immernachtreich soon became plagued by a perpetual nightmare. Tasraque, the wicked dragon, infiltrated the subterranean, crossed the bottom of the sea, and eventually came to roam above the capital."
 Xinyan: Huh? A dragon? The only thing I noticed is the gloomy weather.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Could the dragon be... some kind of metaphor?
 Mona: If that's so... Her arch-nemesis, Tasraque, the wicked dragon, is made up of everything that opposes her and rejects her fantasies.
(After solving the first Gaze of the Deep puzzle, or upon traveling to the upper part of the stairs)
 Narrator: "Knowing their peril, the people prayed to The Soteria."
(After solving the second Gaze of the Deep puzzle, or upon arriving at the next platform)
 Narrator: "The Prinzessin descended to confront the dragon, but the great battle was certain to damage the castle."
(After solving the third Gaze of the Deep puzzle, or upon climbing the upper part of the ladder)
 Narrator: "Finally, she pierced through the dragon's scales with Thundering Retribution, and spoke to all amid a downpour of the dragon's blood. She said..."
(Approach the marked area)
 Leon: Help me! Somebody, please!
 Paimon: Aaaah, we've just got to the interesting part! What did the Prinzessin say!?
 Xinyan: That voice sounds familiar. Is it that Nachtraben Ritter fella again?
(Approach the marked area)
 Leon: Oh, thank goodness... Huh? What are you guys doing here!?
 Mona: We should be the ones asking that. What are you doing here?
(Talk to Leon)
 Leon: I'm sorry you have to keep seeing me in such a wretched state. I suppose I'm still not good enough to play the role of a qualified Nachtraben Ritter...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: "Play the role"?
 Leon: I'm ashamed to admit it, but I'm not a real knight... rather, I'm a new actor who recently landed a job to play the role of a knight in a theater troupe!
 Paimon: That's not really something to be smug about.
 Leon: Ah, well, you see, that's where you're mistaken! Theater is an essential part of Immernachtreich's culture. A fantastic theatrical performance is the greatest tribute we can pay to Her Highness.
 Xinyan: Oh, so this is your local culture?
 Leon: Exactly! So I'm delighted that I got to play the knight!
 Mona: Why does the Prinzessin enjoy the theater so much?
 Leon: Her Highness once said, "Celebrate me by staging a play in the wilderness. Bow down to me, and bring me beautiful dreams in return for everlasting glory within the eternal darkness."
 Leon: I believe it is because Her Highness appreciates true art, and can also sense emotions hidden deep within the souls of humankind.
 Leon: The crystallization and sublime expression of emotion is the heart of theater. People who truly understand theater always have a beautiful, sensitive heart, filled with a rich array of emotion.
 Mona: ...So that's how it is.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Thank you for your answer, Sir Knight.
 Leon: O—Oh! Th—Thank you so much for calling me a knight!
 Leon: So, basking still in this honor, I will be off to my battleground. May we meet again!
 Paimon: Hopefully not... Be more careful in the future!
 Leon: Oh, and please remember the password to unlock the gate, "Upon my command, spread your wings and take flight."
(Interact with the barrier)
 Paimon: "Upon my command, spread your wings and take flight."
(Approach the book)
 Paimon: Ahh, the book has appeared!
(Close the book)
 Fischl: Greetings, my most esteemed Father and Mother. Today is celebrated as a festival in the Immernachtreich, and I hope you can both spare some time...
 Fischl's Father: Amy, come on now, darling. You can't be carrying on like that at this age.
 Fischl's Mother: You're a big girl now. It's time to forget the fairy tales.
 Fischl: But...
 Fischl's Mother: Oh, and I almost forgot to mention. I've bought you a new set of music coursebooks. Give them a read, won't you? You should dedicate your time to something more meaningful.
 Fischl: ...O—Okay, Mom, I... I understand.
(A scene transition occurs)
 Paimon: We're back again.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I believe we have just witnessed the true nature of the wicked dragon.
 Xinyan: *sigh* This is something I am all too familiar with. There are always people who believe that our passions are a waste of time.
 Mona: Huh? You're—
 Arnold: Ask-Me-For-Directions Arnold.
 Mona: I mean, you're back, why?
 Arnold: Oh, I came because I bet you'd be looking for the third volume of "Hymn of the Holy Land."
 Mona: Well, you bet right on that front...
 Arnold: You need not do anything for me, my dear lady. The opportunity to behold your beauty is the finest reward I could ask for. I shall give you the answer you seek.

  Solemn Raven: Stop! Ugh, it's you guys again!
 Paimon: What's your problem? We're the Prinzessin's personal retainers.
 Severe Raven: Cut the lies! Her Highness doesn't keep company with nobodies like you.
 Mona: Oh really? Are you prepared to take responsibility for what you just said?
 Severe Raven: I'll say it again. Her Highness doesn't keep company with—

 Paimon: Paimon's confused. What were you guys role-playing just now?
 Fischl: Is there not a single one of my lords and ladies who understood my precepts? Fools.
 Oz: What mein Fräulein means to say is that you are all rather stupid.
 Mona: Yeah, you didn't need to translate that!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I suppose this is the important business Her Highness warned us about earlier.
 Xinyan: Let's get this over with!
 Paimon: Huh? Wait! What is it? What's happening?
(Interact with the barrier)
 Paimon: "Sieh an, mein Sommernachtgarten!"
(Approach the book)
 Paimon: There's the book! Let's go and close it.
 Paimon: Let's hope we won't get transported to another strange place this time...
(Close the book)
 Mona: Library? Why are we inside a library?
 Fischl: ...
 Fischl: You must be the arch-nemesis I've been looking for, the useless and cowardly so-called Prinzessin?
 Immernacht Fischl: Hmph, how laughable. What gives you the impression that you can defeat me? You should know, over the past few days... I've seen all of your fear and trepidation.
 Paimon: Why is there another you? Is it a shadow?
 Immernacht Fischl: Shadow? Yes... I suppose that probably describes our connection aptly enough. So, have you come to surrender to me, little Amy?
 Fischl: Ugh... you...
 Immernacht Fischl: And that raven over there... You must be Oz? Excellent. I have been waiting for you for a long time.
 Immernacht Fischl: I heard that a great sekretär named Oz brought the "Hymn of the Holy Land" into Immernachtreich. I suppose that was you.
 Oz: ...At your service, mein Fräulein.
 Xinyan: Why did you call her mein Fräulein?
 Oz: As you can see, that's also mein Fräulein over there. And if she is mein Fräulein, then does that not make her my master?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...Seems logical enough.
 Immernacht Fischl: I might as well inform you that the Immernachtreich is a place with no way out. Now that you've made it here, I shall crush you and make you my servant.
 Immernacht Fischl: As for Oz, despite bringing over that hideous Book of Prophecies, and causing the foolish citizens to fall to their knees worshiping that piece of nonsense...
 Immernacht Fischl: Why don't you come over to my side? After all, "Fischl is destined to team up with Oz."
 Oz: Mein Fräulein flatters me. I see no reason to refuse.
(Oz teleports to Immernacht Fischl)
 Fischl: Oz!? Where do you think you are going!?
 Mona: He's actually going over to the other side... Fischl, haven't you taught your raven anything about loyalty?
 Fischl: Gah! This is not the time to discuss my shortcomings!
 Fischl: Have you been bewitched, Oz? Why should you trust that she's telling the truth? Is not the Immernachtreich a sacred land of liberty and theater?
 Immernacht Fischl: You are gravely mistaken if you presume the Immernachtreich to be some kind of amusement park.
 Immernacht Fischl: Listen closely... it is a tomb for those who cannot face reality. You will be buried here, and I will take Oz, the product of our imagination, and live forever in the royal castle.
 Fischl: ...A tomb...?
 Immernacht Fischl: You of all people should know about this. Why does it always rain in the Immernachtreich? Why isn't there any music in this so-called paradise?
 Fischl: ...Because of you! It's all because of you!
 Immernacht Fischl: How pathetic! No, dearest Amy, you, not I, are the one responsible for all of this!
 Fischl: Ugh...!
 Immernacht Fischl: You dreamed up a vast kingdom, but you can't bear its weight. Swayed by fear, you can't face the very world you've created. You may try to avoid it, but the fact is: You can't change yourself.
 Immernacht Fischl: I came here in your stead precisely because you failed to show up. The Immernachtreich is now mine, and it is not your place to tell me what to do!
 Fischl: I... I...
 Immernacht Fischl: Amy, you are but a weak fool who does not deserve this world. Begone.
 Xinyan: Hey, are you done?
 Mona: For you to give yourself such a piece of your mind, it must have been bothering you for a long time.
 Fischl: Mona... *sobs*
 Mona: Oh? What's that look on your face?
 Fischl: I... I...
 Mona: Hmph. You're not going to admit defeat, are you?
 Fischl: ...I hate to admit it, but... she might be right...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: No, Please do not think that. Your Highness, do you still remember why we came here?
 Fischl: Kazuha...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I am a samurai from Inazuma who's been entrusted with your safety. These individuals also responded to your call.
 Xinyan: Having your own tomb does sound pretty cool, but the Immernachtreich is not a tomb.
 Fischl: Xinyan...
 Immernacht Fischl: ...Oh, so you've made some friends. But do you really think that's enough for you to defeat me?
 Immernacht Fischl: I am your fear, your dark side. I am the nightmare from which you have never escaped in all these years. Standing before me, you are nothing.
 Fischl: ...
 Fischl: ...
 Fischl: ...No. I can't... I... I can't lose. Not now.
 Fischl: I will be the one to claim victory! Just you wait, I will make you regret everything you said!
(Move past where the Electro Slimes were)
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Take it one step at a time and don't rush. You can win as long as you maintain a level head.
(Move past where the Iceshield Mitachurl was)
 Xinyan: Get it together! Don't lose to anyone, and definitely don't lose to yourself! You ain't weak, that's not true at all.
(Approach the stairs to the upper floor)
 Mona: Hmm? Oh, my divination attempts are working again. And the stars say... the Fischl I know will obtain a landslide victory.
(Approach Immernacht Fischl)
 Immernacht Fischl: Impossible! How did you make it through that nightmarish library... Stand down!
 Fischl: ...Do you still think I'm going to lose?
 Immernacht Fischl: You...!
 Fischl: You looked down on me. You thought I was a worthless coward.
 Fischl: And yes, I did use to be like that, because... I am someone who can't face reality, who spends all day daydreaming, and can't cope with setbacks or criticisms.
 Fischl: But now I understand. I understood as soon as I first laid my eyes on this mirage.
 Fischl: Do you see that incredible world out there? So vast, so breathtaking... that is my imagination, the source of my power.
 Fischl: You act so arrogant under that dark cloak of self-obsession. But that's not your true nature.
 Fischl: You're no Prinzessin. You're just a narcissistic speck of dust hiding in my shadow! You are the true loser, the one who's holding me back!
 Immernacht Fischl: Oof!
 Fischl: You hide your fear and cowardice behind a facade of thorns and self-loathing. You are far weaker than me.
 Fischl: Now give it back!
 Immernacht Fischl: Wh—What?
 Fischl: Return to me what is rightfully mine! The Immernachtreich, the castle, my people... and, most importantly, my companion, Oz!
 Oz: Oh, mein Fräulein, you speak with such eloquence and vigor now. You've truly matured into the Prinzessin.
 Fischl: You've got some nerve opening your beak, traitor!
 Oz: No, mein Fräulein, I've come here to prove something to you all.
 Oz: As we all know, Oz will always follow Fischl, the Prinzessin der Verurteilung. It should make no difference whose side I am on, because you're both Fischl.
 Oz: But consider this: When I switched sides, you did not lose your identity, did you?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Indeed. These are words of wisdom.
 Fischl: What do you mean "my identity"?
 Oz: Whom do you suppose "Fischl" truly is?
 Fischl: ...Huh?
 Oz: This is my question to you, mein Fräulein.
 Fischl: Fischl is... well... Fischl is...
 Immernacht Fischl: She's a loser... a coward who refuses to confront her true self behind the fantasies and lies.
 Oz: No, you are wrong.
 Fischl: Fischl... is... me?
 Oz: Ah, you caught on most rapidly.
 Fischl: Huh? ...That's it?
 Oz: Indeed, mein Fräulein. Fischl is sometimes the Prinzessin der Verurteilung, and other times not. She may be courageous and arrogant, but she may also be weak and cowardly.
 Oz: Fischl is you. Both noble and humble, she is a first-rate adventurer with few friends and the Prinzessin der Verurteilung, the Sovereign of the Immernachtreich.
 Oz: Fischl is both timid and strong. She's afraid of others' gossip, yet yearns for their respect.
 Oz: Most importantly, Fischl is often self-deprecating, beating herself up countless times, yet she always finds a way to rise again.
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, no one merits the name Fischl more than you do. It's a complex yet simple name that represents the beauty of dreams and liberty.
 Oz: With or without loyal admirers, Amy will always be Fischl. You are Fischl, the enlightened one who has always carried that belief in her heart.
 Fischl: ..."May my people be freed from the shackles of ancient decrees."
 Oz: Thank you for creating the Immernachtreich and giving us a homeland, for authoring the "Hymn of the Holy Land" in your subconscious, which offered us hope for a bright future.
 Oz: Please embrace your darkness and return to your true form, Your Highness.
 Immernacht Fischl: ...
 Fischl: ...
 Paimon: Whoa! Fancy-dress Fischl vanished! Wait a minute... and now she's back?
 Mona: The shadow seems to have returned to Fischl's heart, where it belongs.
 Fischl: ...Hahaha, everyone, lend me your ears!
 Xinyan: There she is!
 Fischl: Hehe, citizens of the Immernachtreich! Do you hear my summons?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Yes, Your Highness!
 Mona: Ugh, there she goes again, I am so done with this...
 Fischl: Oz speaks the words of truth. Today is a grand occasion, for it is the day that I seize back my heart and reclaim control of my kingdom. I hereby announce...
 Fischl: Welcome to the Immernachtreich!
 Paimon, Xinyan, and Mona: Yaaay!
(A cutscene plays)
Narrator: One stormy night
Narrator: A girl found a way to the future in the library
Narrator: She said to herself:
Fischl: I shall create my dream kingdom
Fischl: I'll carve mountains and oceans, and erect castles and towns
Narrator: Then she spoke to those who shared her dream:
Fischl: Please be proud of all that is unreal
Fischl: For we are greater than this world!
Fischl: For our magnificent kingdom is a small and forbidden paradise
(Cutscene ends)
 Fischl: (What a wonderful day. I reclaimed my heart and became the true Prinzessin der Verurteilung.)
 Fischl: (The Immernachtreich really appeared. Even so, I know that all the negative emotion I've been harboring in my heart will not simply go away.)
 Fischl: (And that's okay. I'll carry these imperfections with me as I fight on, because I now know that what I have is unique and wonderful.)
 Paimon: Fischl, the stage is all set up outside! Wanna go check it out?
 Oz: Lady Paimon, do watch your words.
 Paimon: Oh, right! Okay, Your Highness, wouldst thou care to venture outdoors and... checketh stuff out?
Icon Dialogue Talk Pffft...
 Fischl: Ahem! How dare you, retainer of mine, mock the great and dignified Prinzessin der Verurteilung?
Icon Dialogue Talk I'm not mocking you.
Icon Dialogue Talk I'm just happy to see you back to your normal self.
 Fischl: ...Hehe, I concur!
 Fischl: Now let us rejoice and celebrate this historic moment for the Immernachtreich!
 Oz: Oh, what mein Fräulein means is that she entreats you to celebrate the arrival of the Immernachtreich with utmost zeal and great joy...
 Paimon: Alright, alright, we get it... Please don't translate her words back into Fischlspeak...
 Mona: ...Ugh...
 Mona: Watching a theater performance in a nation like this must be quite an experience.
 Mona: As for the puzzle I'm working on... I should have an answer soon.
(Mona performs a divination)
 Paimon: Oh, there's something we've gotta do! Your Highness, Oz, please excuse us for a moment.
 Oz: Very well, see you soon.
 Paimon: C'mon, let's try to contact Venti again.

 (Talk to Mona on the balcony of the lower level underneath the "Immmernachtreich Keep" waypoint)
 Mona: Fischl's dilemma was indeed within herself. But there was only one phantom, not a swarm... so my guess was a little off the mark.
 Mona: After all that she went through, it's good that she finally got to reconcile with herself.
 Mona: Still, it looks like I won't be free from this Court Archmage role anytime soon...

 Xinyan: Everyone, over here!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Is everyone awake now? Mona says that she has something important to tell everyone.
 Fischl: The first glimmering daybreak after the return of the Immernachtreich most certainly revitalizes one's innermost spirits.
 Oz: What mein Fräulein means is that she is ready to take on the next challenge.
 Paimon: Yeah, we're rested and ready too!
 Mona: Alright. Then I'll get to the crux of the matter.
 Mona: I just peeked into my scryglass, and there's a new mirage forming on the island over there.
 Mona: And... I have a feeling that this one is my mirage.
 Xinyan: Oh, so now it's Mona's turn. You were with us for all of ours, seems like it's time for us to go with you into yours!
 Mona: Ugh... well, I'm sure there's nothing to see, really.
 Oz: Lady Megistus, are you embarrassed?
 Mona: No, absolutely not! Haha... It's not like I'm worried about everyone judging me after seeing my embarrassingly pathetic mirage or anything...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: This emphatic "no" sounds rather like a thinly disguised "yes"...
 Mona: Well... *ahem* Astrologists are often regarded as something out of this world, right? But what if my mirage is nothing like that...?
 Fischl: Fret not. Your Prinzessin is not so foolish as to entertain preconceived notions on how thy mirage should or should not present itself.
 Xinyan: Yeah, me neither! Not that I have low expectations of you, Mona, but personally, I think you're a kind soul, and you shouldn't feel like you have to live up to anything more than that.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I'm sure Mona's mirage will stay true to her kind heart.
 Paimon: Yeah, and it's not like we're going in there just to do some sightseeing. There's other reasons, too, right?
Icon Dialogue Talk Yeah. Maybe...
Icon Dialogue Talk ...we'll find some clues about the unusual phenomena there.
 Mona: ...Really? Well, okay then.
 Mona: I suppose I'm not worried as long as everyone doesn't get too excited. Alright then, let's get going.
(Approach the marked area on Minacious Isle)
 Mona: According to my scryglass, we've arrived at the mirage. Okay, let's find the entrance first...
 Paimon: Is that it, over there?
 Xinyan: Huh, this looks like some kind of pool.
 Paimon: Uh, we're not gonna have to swim to get in, are we?
 Mona: ...
 Mona: Wait, do we have a non-swimmer among us?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: No, I don't think that's the real problem here...
 Mona: Ahaha, someone's scared, huh? Well, then, I'll go first.
 Fischl: And there she goes! She's gonna show off her oh-so-perfect swimming skills now!
 Oz: Ahem! Please be mindful of your wording, mein Fräulein.
 Fischl: Ohh! Right!
 Mona: See you later!
 Paimon: Whoa, Mona dived right into the pool and disappeared! Let's catch up with her!
Icon Quest Step Step Description
Without the need for further divination, everyone heads to the final island in search of the next mirage. There, you and the others find a water pool. It seems that this story has something to do with Mona.
(Enter the domain)
 Kaedehara Kazuha: What a spectacular structure...
 Xinyan: Wow, I've never seen anything like this...
 Xinyan: Hey, uh Mona, your mirage is amazing!
 Fischl: Though it falls short of the glorious Immernachtreich, one must admit that it is an impressive realm nonetheless, Lady Megistus.
 Mona: (Whew, at least it's not showing me getting lectured by the old hag. Thank goodness...)
 Mona: Well, what else would you expect of a genius astrologist's mirage?
 Mona: Okay, let's get started.
(Interact with the investigation point)
(Show tutorial)
(After unlocking the first door)
 Paimon: Whoa! It's open!
(After opening the Exquisite Chest)
 Paimon: Hmm? There's a star over there...
 Paimon: And now it's gone! Let's follow it!
(Follow the star into the pool)
 Paimon: It made its way inside!
(Follow the star in the new area)
 ???: I've always been very proud of my talent in astrology.
 Mona: Huh? What in the... Is that my voice!?
(Continue following the star)
 ???: I believe that astrology is a valuable discipline, and that it is capable of revealing the inner workings of this universe
 Mona: Uh, that's me talking to myself...
 Mona: When people discovered I could perform divination, they began to bombard me with inquiries.
 Mona: "When is my missing son going to be found?"
 Mona: "Do they love me or not?"
 Mona: "Will I ever recover?"
 Mona: Being the honest person I am, I told them exactly what I saw through the scryglass.
 Mona: Though honesty may bring about resentment, I—I couldn't lie in the face of such a noble art.
 Mona: "Astrology is a scam!"
 Mona: "That's insane!"
 Mona: "Can you please leave me alone now? I need some space..."
 Mona: It felt as if I was being stabbed with razor-sharp knives formed by their disappointment.
 Mona: I could see the future, yet I felt miserable... as if I'd fallen into an abyss.
(After completing the challenge)
 Oz: Lady Megistus... this is heartbreaking.
 Mona: Ugh, please don't try to comfort me. It'll only make me feel embarrassed...
 Xinyan: C'mon, you don't need to pretend in front of us! Need a hug?
 Mona: N—No!
 Mona: That was really how I felt back when I first started out in astrology but...
 Mona: I've matured now. I'm no longer so easily swayed by random people's opinions.
 Fischl: Who would've thought! Even Megistus the Court Archmage was not spared of vexatious times in her career.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: It must have been difficult to be misunderstood by others... I'm glad that you were able to move past that.
 Mona: Actually, there are many who have given up astrology due to similar circumstances.
 Mona: But, I am a genius, so it's only fair that I'm able to accomplish what others cannot.
 Paimon: It's pretty inspiring to hear you say all that in an amazing place like this!
Icon Dialogue Talk You're awesome, Mona!
Icon Dialogue Talk You're definitely a genius.
 Mona: Yes, good, keep going.
 Oz: Ahem... sorry to interrupt, but the door is that way.
 Mona: Alright, I'll let you shower me with praise after all the mysteries are solved.
(Enter the mirage door)
 Kaedehara Kazuha: The surroundings appear to have changed. This isn't the beach we originally left.
 Oz: The area appears to be the mountains of Mondstadt. Wait, have we been sent back to Mondstadt?
 Fischl: Yet the boundless ocean still surrounds us.
 Mona: There should be another pool around here for us to enter.
 Xinyan: Over here, y'all!
(Everyone walks to the pool)
 Mona: Hmm? Why isn't it letting us enter?
 Paimon: Oh, something seems to be floating on the water there...
 Xinyan: Uh... is it a painting? Or what is it...?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: It seems to be hinting at a specific place.
 Fischl: It is anticipating that the Prinzessin would guide her loyal followers to the location that has been chosen by fate.
 Mona: Why is it always you that has to take the lead... Ugh whatever, it doesn't matter. Let's just find this place first.

 Paimon: Look, there's another star! Let's follow it!
(Following the star into the pool)
 Mona: Astrology reveals the truth unreservedly. But, not everyone is willing to accept their fate.
 Mona: No matter. Running into difficulties is part of practicing the craft. I must also become stronger myself in order to convince people.
 Mona: I once met an adventurer on a mountain who also happened to be picking fruits. He was even kind enough to share some with me.
 Mona: So, in return, I agreed to perform a divination for him.
 Mona: The results were terrifying. I advised him to give up adventuring as soon as possible, otherwise he could meet his end within the next two years.
(Upon reaching the invisible maze with a map)
 Mona: He fell silent for a while. Surprisingly, he didn't doubt the results of my divination like others had, but he looked quite perplexed.
 Mona: "Even so... I have to keep going. Adventurers can't just give up in the face of hardship."
 Mona: With that, he picked up his pack and headed for the peak.
(Follow the star up a set of stairs)
 Mona: However, try as I might, I could never forget that incident.
 Mona: ...Why is that?
(Enter the mirage door)
 Paimon: Oh, we're back again!
 Xinyan: So uh, Mona, is that adventurer... dead now?
 Mona: ...
 Mona: That was the only time I ever saw him. And that was more than three years ago, which means... he's no longer alive.
 Paimon: But isn't there still a chance that he's alive? You know, like maybe you just made a mistake?
Icon Dialogue Talk But that's not fair.
 Mona: You can't call it divination if you reject anything bad and believe the good unreservedly. That's just self-deception.
 Mona: Of course, casually performing divination for fun might be a different matter, but in my field of expertise, there's no room for lies.
 Mona: To contradict my own reading would be a blasphemy against astrology.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Cruel, but truthful. Such is fate.
 Mona: I don't usually say things like this, but while we're on the topic, I really hope you don't confuse astrology with those fortune stick peddlers that you see along the streets.
 Mona: Astrology does not exist to please. We astrologists are here to verify and witness the truths of this world.
 Mona: ...
 Mona: Which is why astrology is a disdained profession! It is a mighty art, but unfortunately one that annoys people nonetheless.
 Fischl: Why dost thou protest so much, Lady Megistus? Thou seemst not to be the sort with whom one would be loathe to be associated.
 Oz: What mein Fräulein means is that she's glad to be friends with you.
 Fischl: No! That was not what I said!
 Fischl: Whatever has gotten into you, Oz! You misinterpret my utterances with an increasingly alarming frequency!
 Oz: Oh my, why could that be? Perhaps I have been concerned that mein Fräulein could offend her friends and have been attempting to soften her words?
 Xinyan: Although you're the only astrologist I know, you've left an awesome impression on me. You're not annoying at all!
 Xinyan: Those who go snooping around for secrets, yet ignore whatever they don't wanna hear? They're the ones who should reflect on themselves. Knowing your fate doesn't come cheap.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: If one could simply avoid fate with just a few words, no one would have to endure the pain of parting. Mona, don't take others' comments to heart.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Follow your heart and never forget what's right.
 Mona: I—I don't need comforting, thank you very much! I'm very tough, you know!
Icon Dialogue Talk Then why are your ears red?
 Mona: Oh, uh...
 Mona: Well, then... Umm...
 Mona: Th—Thank you.
 Fischl: What dost thou say? Speak up, and offer your highest reverence and blessings to the Prinzessin.
 Xinyan: Okay, okay, Your Highness... Instead of making a scene, why don't you go collect the other fragments in the new location reflected by the pool? We can't enter the mirage without 'em.
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, you are the only one with eyes sharp enough to locate the secrets.
 Fischl: If that's the case, very well, I shall proceed to the beach...
 Xinyan: Let's go, Mona.
 Mona: Oh, okay! Coming!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...Haha.

 Mona: Whoa! Wait, how the...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Another house in Mondstadt?
 Mona: What are we doing in my house!!!
 Fischl: Your house? This is your house?
 Oz: My, how unexpected... I heard Lady Megistus lived a modest life, but this abode...
 Paimon: Look at the labels on these books on the ground... "Only one of its kind, 990,000 Mora..." Hey! That's super expensive!
 Xinyan: There are so many expensive-looking hardcovers over here... So this is what an astrologist's room looks like...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: The rooms are exquisitely designed... This place must be very expensive.
Icon Dialogue Talk So Mona's rich...
Icon Dialogue Talk It was my misconception this whole time...
 Mona: Hey, I'm just occasionally out of Mora, that's all. I never said I was a pauper.
 Fischl: You're not? Ugh, so what about those times I treated you to meals? And had you over to my place for dinner?
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, mind your phrasing.
 Fischl: Ahem! Thou wert blessed with the coveted opportunity to enter the palace of the Immernachtreich and meet with the Kaiser and Kaiserin der Verurteilung. Or hast thou conveniently forgotten this magnificent occasion?
 Mona: Oh, yes, the stew and cold cuts your mother made were heavenly! Mmm, I could go for some more of that right now...
 Oz: Lady Megistus, this is not the time for such things!
 Xinyan: Is that Mondstadt cuisine? I wanna try some! I heard Mondstadt has lots of local delicacies, especially meat dishes.
 Fischl: Hmph, then I shall extend to you the honor of meeting the Kaiser and Kaiserin with me on a future occasion.
 Paimon: Really? Hey (Traveler), we should go too!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Now that you mention it, it has been a while since I visited a friend's house. I shall gladly oblige.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Oh, but shouldn't we bring some sort of gift?
 Oz: Those two are very kind and understanding, so please don't worry about that. Just bring yourselves.
 Mona: You seriously have to try her mom's cold cut platter. It's her specialty, or something — anyway, it's simply delightful!
 Oz: Not to interrupt, but perhaps we should start working on the puzzle at hand? Ever since I entered this place, I have found myself most preoccupied with that ornament...
 Mona: Oh, right.
(Touch the strange ornament)
 Paimon: Whoa!
(Enter the domain)
 Mona: Astrologists are able to understand the most complex signs among the stars. And because of this, we are not allowed to show any arrogance.
 Mona: If one believes that astrology grants them unlimited power, they will face banishment by the stars.
 Mona: In the past, I was ignorant enough to think that I understood all fates in the universe.
 Mona: Maybe it was some form of punishment... but I became lost. I couldn't see the stars any longer.
 Mona: "You should not get confused. If you should become confused one day, not even astrology will be able to help you then."
 Mona: That's what the old hag said. We astrologists can't predict our own fate.
 Mona: But today, those words seem to carry a different meaning.
 Mona: I understand now that people won't always follow a beacon's guiding light. Even though the way forward may be dark and dangerous, they will still resolutely forge ahead.
 Mona: Fate is called such precisely because it cannot be altered or reversed.
 Mona: I understand the governing laws of the universe, and have glimpsed secrets between heaven and earth. Observing it is enough for me, there's no need to force it to change.
 Mona: There are no perfect legends, and no heroes that can save everyone. Instead of dwelling on my helplessness, what I should do...
 Mona: ...is seize my own destiny.
 Mona: ...Looks like it's coming to an end again.
(Fall through the floor)
 Fischl: What a magnificent view...
 Oz: Lady Megistus, I believe this is the firmest evidence yet of your immense genius. You truly are the greatest archmage in the history of the Immernachtreich.
 Mona: Thank you, although the Immernachtreich really doesn't have that much of a history...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...Stars like diamonds, and the moon like a pearl. This is the most brilliant night sky I have ever beheld.
 Xinyan: It's beautiful...
 Xinyan: To call up such a mirage, Mona must have a vast and boundless sea of stars in her heart.
 Mona: ...
Icon Dialogue Talk Mona, what's the matter?
 Mona: ...I'm just thinking, these must be the things that we aspire to.
 Mona: This night sky is incredibly beautiful. In fact, I might go so far as to say it's even more beautiful than what I usually see in divinations.
 Mona: All the stars are in their rightful place.
 Mona: ...This is definitely my mirage. Only here can I see extraordinary sights like these.
 Paimon: Extraordinary? Why do you say that?
 Mona: You know, the night sky of Teyvat is truly marvelous. All the answers in the world seem to have been hidden within.
 Mona: "When is my missing son going to be found?"
 Mona: "Do they love me or not?"
 Mona: "Will I ever recover?"
 Mona: As your stars move across the sky, they record all your life events in their path. And among all the people in the world, a considerable number will see their stars deviate from their path.
 Mona: When your stars are on track, it means you will be healthy, happy, and at peace.
 Mona: Conversely, if your stars go off track, everything will get worse.
 Mona: The starry sky in my divinations would never look as perfect as this. Some stars would lose their way, and others would fall...
 Mona: ...I wish everyone could be happy, and stay on track.
 Mona: To this end, I offer advice and tell the truth.
 Mona: I know it's useless. All fates are already revealed in the night sky, with mine, too, just another among them. I can't change anything.
 Mona: Even so... outside of astrology, outside of the words of truth, I still cling to the wisp of an irrational fantasy.
 Mona: We must all live within the confines of reality, but... call me presumptuous, but I still believe in miracles.
 Mona: In this vast sea of stars, there are stars for you, for me, for everybody.
 Mona: What are the chances of one star encountering another? Are these encounters not the most wonderful miracles in all of destiny? ...I don't know.
 Mona: But within Teyvat, the stars in the sky will always have a place for us. Even if astrology is resolutely rational, fate remains arbitrary, cruel, but romantic.
 Mona: ...
Icon Dialogue Talk Mona, you seem to have been deep in thought...
Icon Dialogue Talk Have you found the answer?
 Mona: ...I think I have figured out what those stars are hiding.
 Mona: "Now, I will seize my own destiny."
(Capture the star)
(A cutscene plays)
Mona: There was a transparent bird made of crystal
Mona: It was beautiful and fragile, and could sing the most beautiful songs
Mona: But since mortals couldn't even see it, they believed it to be a trick
Mona: How could a transparent bird possibly exist, let alone sing?
Mona: When the bird heard that, it flapped its wings
Mona: And flew across mountains and seas
Mona: All the way to the night sky, where it turned into a star
Mona: Its brilliance was so dazzling that it illuminated everyone
Mona: It allowed all those that could see it to follow its light through the dark night
Mona: To sail through the seas under the guidance of the stars
Mona: It was born in wisdom, but trapped in ignorance
Mona: It has never voiced a complaint, for this is its destiny
Mona: Guiding people to see their destinies is the very meaning of its existence
(Cutscene ends)
 Paimon: We're back here again. So... Are we completely out of the mirage?
 Mona: How strange...
 Mona: My mirage didn't contain any hints on the Fatui or the machine... Does that mean they had nothing to do with these mirages after all?
 Mona: Or perhaps these mirages are a mere consequence, and not part of a process at all?
 Paimon: Umm, Paimon's lost...
 Mona: I mean, these mirages were not steps towards solving the mystery, but rather a direct effect of whatever is going on.
 Mona: Someone did something to bring the mirages into being. As they were just passive side products, it was natural that they couldn't provide us with any useful information.
 Xinyan: In other words, those mirages were only about ourselves.
 Fischl: Hmm, pure materializations of ourselves... Interesting.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Everyone, maybe we should go back to where this whole thing began.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: During our first day on the island, (Traveler) and I checked out the Fatui camp together. We found a strange machine there, as well as some disoriented Fatui.
Icon Dialogue Talk This is correct.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: The researcher who spoke to us claimed that the machine was just a Fatui industrial invention. He even promised to not disturb us.
 Paimon: Right right, and the cappy-cap guy looked half asleep the entire time. He kept talking nonsense!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I wonder, is it possible that "madness" and "mirages" are two different outcomes of the machine's influence?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: If so, everything can be traced back to that damaged machine — except for the difference in how it affects people. This, I believe, is caused by differences between the affected people themselves.
 Mona: ...!
 Mona: When you put it that way... it is indeed difficult to distinguish dreams and hallucinations.
 Mona: So what you're saying is, the device affected us differently because we are different from the Fatui?
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Yes, and according to our observations over these past few days, I think... the difference is that we all have stronger willpower.
 Xinyan: ...Yeah, I can get behind that.
 Xinyan: People with strong willpower will hallucinate instead of falling into madness, but those who break too easily can't maintain a stable mirage.
 Paimon: In other words, we should go back to the Fatui camp and destroy that machine right away.
 Fischl: No, it should be repaired, rather than destroyed.
 Oz: What mein Fräulein means is that rashly destroying a machine we do not understand may lead to more serious consequences. It would be better to find a way to repair it first.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Right, it pays to be cautious.
 Mona: If my guess is correct, that machine is capable of influencing the human brain. So we'd better tread carefully.
 Paimon: So let's go now! There's no time to waste!

Paimon: Hey, look! Isn't that the same guy we saw on our first day here?
 Researcher: Ahaha... *hic* Everyone's gone crazy. Everyone should get out of here!
 Researcher: We'll... We'll never wake up... But I was right, my precious, you are invincible... hehe...
 Xinyan: Precious? What's his precious?
 Researcher: A miracle machine... Definitely not... impossible... *hic*!
 Mona: I think he's referring to that machine.
 Fischl: What a drunkard, hmph.
 Oz: Oh goodness, the smell of alcohol... Mein Fräulein, please allow me to fan the fumes away with my wings.
 Mona: Excellent, please fan them away for me, too.
Icon Dialogue Talk Me as well.
 Oz: Certainly.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I've checked the surroundings, but there's no one else here.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Isn't that strange? The Fatui is a big organization, but he is the only one left at this camp. What's more, we didn't even see him the last time we were here.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Even the larger gentleman from the first time is missing. I think... they must be hiding somewhere.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: As for why they may be hiding, I'm afraid we'll have to ask him.
 Paimon: But he's as drunk as Tone-Deaf Bard... Should we wait for him to sober up?
 Fischl: Cleanse him with the holy spring of punishment!
 Oz: Mein Fräulein means to splash him with water.
 Paimon: Sounds like a good idea. Let's try!
Everyone takes out their water bottles and empties them over the collapsed Fatui researcher...
 Paimon: Hey, he opened his eyes!
 Researcher: Hm... Huh?
 Mona: Hey, are you one of the Fatui? Can you tell us what happened here and what that machine is for?
 Researcher: ...F—Fatui...
 Researcher: ...Hah! Fatui!
 Researcher: Oh... those blockheads from the administration will regret it now! Haha! That's what you get for rejecting my research and forcing me to...
 Researcher: Forcing me to... to conduct my research on this deserted island... My precious! My precious... *sobs*
 Paimon: Why is he crying? Looks like he has a lot of pent-up emotions...
 Researcher: ...You mocked me... and my precious invention! You... you don't know anything about the future.
 Researcher: Only my invention... can help us conquer the world! Haha... hahaha...
 Researcher: Idiots, such idiots, hahaha...
 Researcher: Ow! Don't hit me! I won't blow up the lab again... I'm sorry! I didn't mean to...
 Xinyan: This man's gone insane. There's no way we can communicate with him.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: He wasn't like this when we first met him. It looks like the effects have grown worse, to the point of driving him mad.
 Researcher: *sobs*... My manuscript, my manuscript! Only that... can save... save... *sobs*
 Fischl: Manuscript? Where is it?
 Researcher: Don't yell at me, don't yell at me... *sobs*
 Paimon: Fischl, don't yell at him!
 Fischl: Hmph! Then I'll...
 Mona: Let me try.
 Mona: Kind sir, look at me. Now tell me, where did you hide your manuscript?
 Researcher: *sobs* No, no, don't force me to write a report... *sobs* Go away...
 Paimon: Ugh, he's completely lost in his own imagination...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Allow me.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: ...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Please excuse me!
Kazuha stands quietly for a while, then throws the researcher over his shoulder and onto the ground.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Haah!
 Researcher: *sobs* Ow! My butt... *sobs* My brain is finally starting to work again... It's not a mushy mess anymore...
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Can you tell me where you put the manuscript?
 Researcher: The manuscript... the manuscript... is in the crack over there...
 Xinyan: Whew, finally! Otherwise, I was gonna have to blast some of my loudest rock 'n' roll in his ears.
 Paimon: Kazuha hesitated for a long time before making a move. He's so nice.
Icon Dialogue Talk Yup. He's destined for greatness.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Everyone, let's search the stone cracks nearby for the manuscript.
(Talk to Persikov)
(Traveler): (The researcher came to his senses briefly after Kazuha's throw, but soon fell unconscious...)
(Traveler): (Did his mental state deteriorate, or did Kazuha knock him out...?)
(Interact with the manuscript)
 Fischl: Found it!
 Oz: Congratulations! We've found the key to solving the problem!
 Mona: Let me see... Hmm...
Mona takes the manuscript and studies it carefully...
 Mona: Just as I thought. This machinery named "Cognitive Mimicry" is capable of altering the state of people's brains. It was invented by the researcher we met earlier, his name is Persikov.
 Mona: According to the manuscript, the Fatui officials did not support Persikov's research. They believed he had taken the wrong path.
 Mona: But Persikov insisted on putting his machine to use. In order to achieve that, he disassembled the machine and used his connections to transport the parts to this deserted island.
 Paimon: How did they find this island? The Fatui's intelligence network's not to be underestimated.
 Mona: Persikov was dead set on carrying out his experiments on this island. Most of his subjects were junior Fatui soldiers who all signed a waiver before the experiment.
 Mona: ...It looks like they really thought this machine would benefit the Fatui.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: How does the machine work?
 Mona: That's most likely top-secret. The manuscript didn't reveal any details, but Persikov did mention that the machine was modeled after the power of a god.
 Mona: Does that mean... there's a god connected to these dream-like mirages, and the Fatui found a way to research it?
 Fischl: Clearly. Otherwise, they wouldn't have been able to reproduce the god's power.
Icon Dialogue Talk (Wait, so there's some sort of... Mirage Archon?)
 Mona: Anyway, Persikov's experiment did not go as planned. The machine broke down just days after it was activated. They tried to fix it, but...
 Mona: The technologically illiterate Fatui soldiers completely ruined the machine. Even its most important component of all — the crystalline cores — got ejected and disappeared.
 Oz: A testament to the importance of maintenance in all aspects of life. I believe we can all learn something from this.
 Mona: Persikov may be a mad scientist, but he didn't want to see his subordinates suffer. Besides, if he didn't solve the problem, he would end up going insane as well.
 Mona: As a last resort, Persikov went out on his own to look for the cores. But he was just a sickly researcher unfit for the task. He had to give up.
 Mona: Then, Persikov went searching for the soldiers who had gone mad and strayed from the group, and took them to a hidden cave.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I think that was where they were at the day we arrived on this island. Persikov was taking a strong Fatui soldier somewhere.
 Mona: Yes. It took Persikov all of his strength to get all the missing soldiers into the cave. He tried to snap them out of it with music and poetry...
 Mona: But nothing worked.
 Xinyan: We came here once but there was no one around. Come to think of it, that must've been the day Persikov was busy gathering the soldiers into the cave.
 Mona: There's good news and bad news written on the last few pages.
 Mona: The good news is, Persikov managed to figure out the location of the crystalline cores by piecing together the snippets of information he could get from the delirious soldiers...
 Mona: The bad news is, Persikov failed to revive them, and eventually succumbed to the device's influence himself. The last few pages of the manuscript are just unintelligible drunken scribbles.
 Fischl: It appears that the responsibility for this issue now falls to my retainers and I.
Icon Dialogue Talk Never thought we'd be saving the day on a vacation...
Icon Dialogue Talk I feel a sense of purpose.
 Mona: There's a map in the manuscript. The markings should indicate the locations of the crystalline cores.
(Open Persikov's Manuscript)
 Paimon: We've got no choice but to find the crystalline cores now!
(Obtain Persikov's Manuscript)

(Insert the cores into the machines)
 Paimon: We've inserted all the crystalline cores. Mona, is that all we needed to do?
 Mona: I think so. That's what the manuscript says anyway.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Let's give it some time. Hopefully, it'll return to normal.
Everyone sits around the campfire, chatting and cooking barbecue.
Once the machine is fixed, the situation seems to improve. Soon, you hear footsteps approaching...
 Fatui Sergeant: Aah! Someone's in our camp!
 Fatui Recruit: Hey, who are you people!?
 Fatui Sergeant: Hold on, look at the machine... is it fixed?
 Fatui Recruit: What? But Mr. Persikov is still lying on the ground over there.
 Paimon: We're the ones who fixed the device. Yeah, you're welcome!
 Mona: We could have had a nice, relaxing vacation, if all of this hadn't ended up occupying so much of our time.
 Fischl: Hmph! Apologize to me and my retainers at once!
 Fatui Sergeant: Huh!? Oh no, oh no, I—I'm outta here...
 Fatui Recruit: Hey, hey! Don't leave me here on my own... Mr. Persikov's still there, we need to save him!
 Xinyan: Haha, those two definitely seem a little more lucid now.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: It looks like we succeeded.
 Paimon: Yay! Let's get outta here then. Paimon wants to spend the rest of this vacation back at our own camp.
Icon Dialogue Talk You mean Klee's camp.
 Paimon: Yeah! But it feels like our camp now, kinda like our temporary home, hehe.
 Oz: Then perhaps we should call it the Embassy of the Immernachtreich and Dodoland.
 Paimon: Huh? No! That's too many words. Paimon would prefer something easy to remember.
 Paimon: Come on, let's go home now.
(Return to the camp)
 Paimon: *yawn* Whew! After coming home to a nice big meal then having a long lie down, Paimon's finally starting to feel relaxed.
 Fischl: Hehe, is the hospitality of the Immernachtreich to thy liking?
 Paimon: Paimon's loving it!
 Oz: Wonderful. Mein Fräulein invited you all here not only to witness the arrival of our Holy Land, but most importantly, she wished that you could all relax and enjoy the summer.
 Xinyan: Great! Well, I've come to the right place — I love it here!
 Fischl: May this place become an eternal paradise.
 Oz: Mein Fräulein says she hopes to go on more adventures with you here in the future.
 Xinyan: Of course! And you should come find me in Liyue when you get the time. I'll show you around.
 Xinyan: Oh, also, my friend runs the best restaurant in Liyue. I'm sure you'll love it.
 Xinyan: If you're into opera, you should go see Yun Jin. She's the nicest person, and she likes making friends with new and interesting people. I'm sure the two of you will have plenty to talk about with your shared passion for theatrics.
 Fischl: Oh? If Lady Xinyan speaks so highly of it, then I must entertain the idea.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: (Traveler), I have a suggestion.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: There is a snack called Roasted Lavender Melon in Inazuma, which goes rather well with fish. Why don't we roast some fruit and seafood for dinner tonight?
Icon Dialogue Talk Okie dokie!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Then it's decided. I'll go gather some more fruit. And for seasoning... Yup, that should do it.
Icon Dialogue Talk Roasted Lavender Melon sounds great. I've tried it before!
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Oh? Did you try it in Inazuma?
Icon Dialogue Talk A few Inazuman friends made some for me.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Haha, that's great.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: You know, I want to follow your example and travel around the world. Hopefully, I can also make good friends along the way.
Icon Dialogue Talk Knowing you, that shouldn't be a problem.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: That means a lot coming from you, (Traveler).
 Mona: Ah, you're all here.
 Mona: I've noticed an issue. Although we've fixed the machine, as you can see — the mirages on the islands have still not disappeared.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I've noticed that, too. But considering it took some time for the mirages to appear, it may also take some time for them to disappear.
 Mona: Yes, that's definitely possible.
 Mona: In other news, my scryglass seems to be working fine now. The divination results are also looking about right, although...
Icon Dialogue Talk Although what?
 Mona: Although there are some parts in the results that I don't quite understand... it's as if there is some sort of power surrounding us, and it's still watching us.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: Do you think it's caused by the machine, or perhaps Persikov?
 Mona: Sorry, I'm also not sure. All I know is that the power is not hostile at the moment. Whatever it is, it doesn't seem to harbor any ill will toward us.
(Traveler): (That reminds me, there's one unanswered question on these islands. But the group is unaware.)
Icon Dialogue Talk I'll keep that in mind.
 Mona: Well, although there's nothing left to disturb us, and we can finally kick back and enjoy our vacation, we still ought to be cautious while we're on these islands.
 Mona: I will keep seeing what the stars say every day.
 Kaedehara Kazuha: I promised Fischl that I'd be her guard. I can help.
 Mona: Good, I'll be counting on you.
 Mona: ...*sigh* Goodness knows why those girls are so carefree about everything. I suppose it falls to me to be extra vigilant.
Icon Dialogue Talk Paimon, come with me!
 Paimon: Oh, coming!
Icon Dialogue Talk Let's go over there.
 Paimon: Ohh, so we're gonna call the Tone-Deaf Bard, right?
Dodocommunication Device: Dodoco! Dodoco!

(Talk to Mona at the peak of the ruins on Minacious Isle II (within the lake))
 Mona: Is this the end of our vacation...
Icon Dialogue Talk Do you want to chat?
 Mona: Sure, is there something you wanted to ask me?
Icon Dialogue Talk About your scryglass...
 Mona: *sigh* It's really quite frustrating. Lately, my scryglass has been acting up whenever something major occurs.
 Mona: ...It's as if it's deliberately trying to stop me from seeing how things will end.
 Mona: Hold on... I hope you didn't bring that up just to poke fun at me?
Icon Dialogue Talk About the starry sky...
 Mona: Oh, I actually wanted to ask you as well. How did you feel when you saw that stretch of sky?
Icon Dialogue Talk It was magnificent!
 Mona: Oh... oh really?
 Mona: Well, I—I am a genius astrologist, after all. Of course my mirage was going to be magnificent...
Icon Dialogue Talk That's the Mona I know!
 Mona: Hmm... But I was so immersed in my thoughts at the time, I didn't realize how magnificent until I heard you speak...
Icon Dialogue Talk It was so spellbinding!
 Mona: Yes, I know... It was on purpose, wasn't it?
Icon Dialogue Talk About this vacation...
 Mona: Although I'm only here because Fischl dragged me along, somewhere on the way, this turned into a wonderful summer.
 Mona: To bear witness and to defend everyone's destiny... that's exactly what I try to do.
Icon Dialogue Talk You've done a great job.
 Mona: Thank you. You too, of course... you've done a lot here.
 Mona: I look forward to working with you again, hehe... I'm sure we will be even better partners.
Icon Dialogue Talk I won't disturb you.
 Mona: Mmm, make sure to enjoy yourself before leaving this island.

 Paimon: Now, let's all prepare to give 110% as we receive our first customers...
Icon Dialogue Talk We're open for business!
 Mona: (Traveler)? Paimon? What a surprise!
 Paimon: Mona and Fischl! You came to check out the market, huh?

 Fischl: Extraordinary events may yet unfold even on this unexceptional autumn day... Splendid, most splendid!
 Oz: Mein Fräulein is battling hard to suppress the euphoria in her voice. Seeing you here has put her in the most wonderful mood...
 Fischl: O—Oz! Spare us your gratuitous embellishments!
 Mona: Hehehe, maybe you should leave me to do the explaining.
 Mona: Not long ago, Her Highness had a very nice dream, and took it as an [sic] sign that something good was about to happen. Naturally, Her Highness' first thought was to come to me for some astrological guidance on the matter.
 Mona: She also noticed that the Weinlesefest was in full flow, and asked if I was interested in checking it out with her.
 Mona: I, of course, agreed. I can take advantage of the festival-period discounts to purchase some bulk supplies for my present column-writing spree.
 Mona: I must admit, without Her Highness' reminder, the Weinlesefest may well have completely passed me by...
 Fischl: Lady Megistus, might Her Highness remind you that the dream of which you speak occurred no less than nine days ago...
 Fischl: And that only after awaiting Lady Megistus's return letter in vain for all this time did one have no recourse but to rap most furiously upon the door to thy abode...
 Mona: Wait... it's been nine days already? NINE DAYS!? Where did the time go!
 Fischl: In light of the great importance this manuscript has to you, Lady Megistus, one shall not hold thy inattentiveness to the passage of time against thee.
 Oz: But I would implore you, Lady Megistus, to be attentive at least to the nigh-overflowing mailbox outside your door. There appear to be many others whose letters go unanswered.
 Paimon: Wow, Mona... you were so immersed in your research that you forgot all about the time, stopped checking your mail, and almost missed out on a huge festival.
Icon Dialogue Talk Sometimes, it's very important to not be disturbed.
Icon Dialogue Talk Your ability to focus is admirable.
 Mona: Ahem! Anyway! Time is of the essence, I have a lot of bulk-buying to do!
 Mona: Speaking of which — it's quite a surprise to see you running your own shop. And a snack shop at that, the most important kind!
 Paimon: Oh, actually, we're just helping someone else out, hehe. Feel free to browse around!
Icon Dialogue Talk Is there anything you'd like to purchase?
 Mona: Let me think... Can you recommend anything that, um... goes well with a drink?
 Paimon: Sure can! If you've got the hangries, then look no further! Just let Paimon check the menu...
 Paimon: Wait a sec... "goes well with a drink"?
 Paimon: Uh-oh... is the writing going that badly? You know drinking isn't gonna solve your problems, right?
 Oz: As it happens, mein Fräulein has been visiting Mona quite frequently as of late. It is possible that Lady Megistus is feeling the pressure from the constant interruptions.
Icon Dialogue Talk Hang in there, Mona!
 Fischl: ...
Icon Dialogue Talk Restrain yourself, Your Highness!
 Fischl: H—Huh!?
 Mona: No, no, it's nothing like that. This has nothing to do with drinking or with Fischl's visits, you all need to calm down...
 Mona: Recently, Her Highness invited me to try her signature cold cut platter... Sorry, I mean Die Heilige Sinfonie!
 Mona: It had such a unique taste and every bite was so sumptuous, before I realized it, I had finished the entire plate...
 Paimon: Wow... Well, an empty plate is the highest compliment you can give to the chef.
 Mona: Die Heilige Sinfonie is an excellent dish. It's filling, full of energy, and has a long shelf life. And if I'm not mistaken, it's often paired with alcohol, yes?
 Mona: It is in almost every respect a far superior dish to the so-called "Satisfying Salad," the sole exception being the steep price...
 Mona: Fortunately, however, the Weinlesefest is upon us. A festival during which not only are wines sold at discounted prices, but also wine-related food products.
 Mona: This opportunity is a godsend. I cannot let it slip by.
 Fischl: Rejoice, Lady Megistus! That dish was but a spontaneous creation hastily made in a moment of need while on a royal excursion. You shall have many opportunities to enjoy far finer culinary delights than this...
 Oz: Mein Fräulein means to say that this dish represents a mere fraction of her full capabilities.
 Mona: But of course! Far be it from me to suggest that the true breadth of Her Highness' culinary brilliance can be displayed in a single dish...
 Mona: However, I cannot expect the sovereign to serve her subject... Ugh, what I mean is, I can't keep letting you cook for me when you're a guest in my home...
 Mona: At the very least, I should have something more than salad in store for when people come around... With any luck, I'll be able to find something to your taste here...
 Fischl: Huh? Mona... is that really what this is all about?
 Oz: Mein Fräulein, might I suggest alternative phrasing that would be more faithful to your style? Perhaps "long had I foreseen this," or "thou needst not fret over thy affinity for salad."
 Fischl: Ahem! ...Most indeed! Lady Megistus!
 Fischl: You have long since earned the recognition of your Prinzessin... Devote yourself to deciphering the secrets of the starry sky. You need not spend precious hours in search of additional ways to delight me.
 Mona: Don't worry, I won't always be as busy as this... it'll be quite nice to work on some other skills when I have the time.
Icon Dialogue Talk In that case...
 Paimon: ...Allow Favonian Goodies to be the solution to your troubles!
 Paimon: In addition to our range of ready-to-eat drinking snacks, we also have a wide variety of semi-prepped dishes for sale. Why not get a few of each kind?
 Paimon: Finishing off these ready-to-cook meals at home is easy as pie, takes no time at all, and can help you improve your cooking skills.
 Paimon: Then, once you have more time on your hands, you'll be ready to challenge yourself with some trickier dishes!
 Paimon: We can even come and help, if you want! (Traveler) is really good at cooking, it'd be no problem.
Icon Dialogue Talk Yeah, piece of cake.
 Mona: Haha, that's a great idea! I'm almost tempted to increase my budget now...
 Fischl: Lady Megistus, your Prinzessin awaits your culinary masterpiece with great anticipation.
 Oz: But please keep Paimon's suggestion in mind and allocate your time wisely.
 Mona: Hmm-hmm, oh, you just wait. The next time you dine at my home, I'm sure you will be pleasantly surprised!

 Paimon: Who's that yelling? Let's hurry and take a look!
(The Traveler and Paimon rush forward)
 Paimon: Timaeus!? And we also have... Rosaria and Mona!? What kind of mishmash ensemble is this...
 Mona: Good question. What kind of a motley crew is this?

 Greetings, everyone. And happy Windblume Festival.
 Mona: You two are looking pretty good. I trust you've been well?
 Paimon: Yep... we're definitely faring a lot better than this poor guy on the ground...
 Timaeus: Hey, please don't rub salt in my wound! I really have been trying my best!
 Mona: You're one to talk! If this sister hadn't grabbed you in time, then you'd have been seriously hurt, if not dead!
 Timaeus: I know, I know... I really am grateful, Miss! I can't thank you enough...
 Rosaria: Don't mention it. Just lending a hand.
 Mona: Quite literally. And had she not lent him a hand and pulled him up, he would've gone tumbling down the cliffside...
 Paimon: What happened? Did Timaeus almost fall off the cliff?
 Timaeus: Uh, well... So what actually happened was... I came to Starsnatch Cliff today to pick some flowers, and ran into Mona on the way. She took a look at her scryglass, and advised me to turn back, because it would be dangerous...
 Paimon: But you still came up here anyway...?
 Timaeus: ...Yes, I did, because there's something I just had to do!
 Mona: *sigh* I hardly think giving flowers to your crush is worth throwing one's life away for...
 Rosaria: It's rare to run into someone with a death wish in this area.
 Timaeus: I don't have a death wish! I just... didn't think it would really come true... I mean, when Mona said "it would be dangerous," I thought I'd be fine as long as I watched my step cautiously. I'm sorry, okay? I was wrong.
 Timaeus: I'm telling you, I'm just here chasing the love of my life. Lovestruck Mondstadters is what the Windblume Festival's all about!
 Paimon: Okay... That explains you, but why is Rosaria here?
 Rosaria: I was looking for a quiet place to escape the crowds. I wasn't planning on having to save a life along the way.
 Mona: ...So that's why the scryglass just showed "danger" instead of "fatal danger."
 Timaeus: Ahaha, very funny... Anyway, (Traveler) and Paimon, what brings the two of you to Starsnatch Cliff?
 Paimon: Just trying our luck! We've got a lot of people we need to see today, so we've been all over the place. Actually, you're some of the people we were looking for!
 Timaeus: Huh?
You tell them about the prophecy, the information gathered so far, and the mailbox...
 Rosaria: I see. So all we'll need to do is to find some clues, make a note, and drop it off at the mailbox?
 Timaeus: I can't believe there's a prophecy like this... Let alone that I have a part to play in it!
 Timaeus: I guess this means everyone will find out about my crush now... Hehe...
 Timaeus: I came here because I wanted to give some Cecilias to the girl I love. They'll really suit her. She's—
 Mona: No, no, no one asked. Please do not subject us to your gushing about your girlfriend.
 Timaeus: Oh... You saw right through me...
 Mona: You said you need clues, right? In that case, Mona Megistus the Astrologist will provide you with a personally handwritten letter. Just wait for it to show up in your mailbox!

 Paimon: Alright, alright! We also have Klee.
 Klee: That's me! Hehehe~
 Mona: With Klee here, this all somehow feels like we're getting ready for a field trip...
 Albedo: There's nothing wrong with a more relaxed atmosphere, is there?
Icon Dialogue Talk Albedo, have you figured out your answer?
 Albedo: Of course. We will soon see if my hypothesis has any merit.
 Collei: Actually... I'm still feeling a little nervous.
 Timaeus: Me too...
 Paimon: But weren't you all fired up just a moment ago?
 Timaeus: Uh, yeah, you're right... Okay, let's do this!
 Sucrose: Actually, I'm a little worried too... Deep breaths... deep breaths!
 Collei: I know what you're feeling... Saying anything becomes so much harder when there are so many people watching...
 Mona: Well, does anyone know the exact location of where we're headed? Or should I do a reading on my scryglass?

 Paimon: How did this little island get up here in the sky? Did somebody make it?
 Collei: Just to be safe, I've been jotting down our entire route here. This way, no one will get lost!
 Paimon: Oh! Good thinking, Collei!
 Paimon: Huh, who would've thought we'd find this kind of table here... Weird, it's almost as if someone was holding a tea party.
 Timaeus: I never would've guessed that such a place could exist, right above Mondstadt too...
 Klee: Wow, look at the pretty lantern on the table! There's even a chair for each side of the lantern, too!
 Mona: There seems to be something on the back of this chair. Let me have a closer look...
 Mona: "Take your seat, present your answers, and you shall reach enlightenment."
 Mona: Well, as far as instructions go, I guess that's simple enough...
 Collei: So we just need to do as it says, right?
 Albedo: Wait a second.
 Paimon: Huh? What is it, Albedo?
 Albedo: We'd better make sure this place is safe before taking our seats. Everyone, please stay clear for a moment.
Everyone vigilantly watches as Albedo conducts a thorough investigation of the space...
 Paimon: Well, all our questions and doubts aside, the scenery here is pretty amazing! It'd be impossible to feel stressed here.
 Sucrose: How is everything, Albedo?
 Albedo: Hmm, everything seems to be fine. I didn't find any traps or suspicious mechanisms.
 Albedo: But, I also couldn't find any overt destructive devices...
 Collei: Huh? What do you mean...?
 Albedo: Well, it seems that wrong answers won't have any catastrophic consequences. Looks like we'll have to sit on these chairs and fulfill the prophecy.
 Albedo: Everyone, I would like to suggest that we try some risky answers on our first attempt. Let's reserve our most confident answers for the second round.
 Paimon: That sounds kind of smart... But why?
 Timaeus: Ah, I get what he means! If we do as he says, then we may be able to figure out how the puzzle works.
 Collei: I see! That makes a lot of sense.
 Mona: ...
 Paimon: Mona, is there something wrong? You're not looking too good.
 Klee: Oh, are you hungry? I brought some snacks...
 Mona: Thank you for offering, Klee, but that's not quite it!
 Mona: While Albedo was checking just now, I gave my scryglass a spin, hoping to find some information...
 Mona: But there's a strange aura to this place. It's almost as if someone has been staring at me as soon as we stepped foot in here.
 Mona: But if nothing here has actually been physically tampered with, then... No... Could that person be...
(Traveler): (Mona just shivered... Did she sense some kind of great power?)
 Klee: What do you mean, Mona? Who could it be?
 Mona: ...Ugh, never mind. It's not like I've got any proof.
 Paimon: Ah! Don't leave us on the edge like this, Mona!
 Klee: Hmm... I'll just do what Albedo said!
 Albedo: Yes, let's test the hypothesis together, Klee.
 Klee: Mhm! C'mon, join us, Mona!
 Mona: Oh... Alright.
 Sucrose: Okay... Then I'll answer the first question. If someone were to ask me to find "a flower that is not of this world"...
 Collei: You can do it, Sucrose!
 Sucrose: Umm...
(Sucrose sits at the table)
 Sucrose: Then I would fetch a Tetratanic Sweet Flower!
 Collei: Alright, I'm up next... My part of the prophecy is to find "a guide who will never get lost."
(Collei sits at the table)
 Sucrose: (Collei... I hope you found your answer...)
 Collei: *sigh*...
 Collei: My answer is... that I will be that guide.
 Collei: For a long time, I have been guided by others. It's taken me a while, but I've finally made it to where I am today.
 Collei: Although I still haven't made a name for myself, and I'm still quite immature, I... I would still like to put my name forward, because I would like to become a guide that can help others.
 Collei: I want to help others the same way Amber, Master Tighnari, Cyno, and everyone else helped me. Now it's my turn to pass on the gift that I've been given.
(Timaeus sits at the table)
 Timaeus: Alright, it's up to me to answer the third part. I—I'll submit myself as "one who would never lie."
 Timaeus: Although I've never really had any other virtues or talents, I'm confident that I've always been an honest person.
 Timaeus: I—I'd like to thank everyone, too, for giving me this opportunity to validate myself.
(Mona is already seated at the table)
 Mona: And last but not least, I will answer the final part of the prophecy.
 Mona: There's no tale more befitting the title of "a legend that never ends" than our fates as human beings.
 Paimon: Wait, the Lantern just lit up!
 Paimon: Whoa, all four sides of the Lantern are glowing!
 Collei: Huh? But...
Icon Dialogue Talk But all we did was submit a batch of test answers...
 Albedo: Collei, could I ask you to stand up for a second?
 Collei: Oh, a—alright...
(Collei stands up, and one side of the lantern dims)
 Albedo: ...
(Albedo sits in Collei's seat, and the dimmed side of the lantern lights up again)
 Paimon: Huh!? What's going on?
 Paimon: Why is it lighting up regardless of who's sitting in the chair? Didn't it say we have to answer all the questions correctly?
 Albedo: It's pretty clear now, isn't it? We've just proven that there is no "right answer" for this prophecy.
 Sucrose: No right answer? But how could that be...
 Albedo: Although the instructions had come from an old and enigmatic prophecy, it is in fact nothing like the ancient mechanism that we had all imagined it to be. I believe the lantern only serves as a simple signal...
 ???: Ah, and to think, I never expected you to actually find this place...
 Timaeus: What!? There's someone else here?
 Scarlett: We meet again, Traveler.
 Paimon: Hey... you're that outlander we met the other day at Good Hunter.
 Scarlett: It's all thanks to you that I was able to find this place. Good thing that you were too preoccupied with the prophecy to notice someone tailing you from the shadows.
 Albedo: Oh, is that so? Then why do I spy yet another person following in your shadow?
 Scarlett: ...Wait, really!?
 Rosaria: ...
 Rosaria: There's no need for pleasantries. You should know I'm here for you.
 Scarlett: Is it just because I'm a visitor from abroad?
 Rosaria: I was there when you snuck your way into Marjorie's place.
 Scarlett: Heh, so you had your eyes on me even then, huh? That was two whole weeks ago, you know.
 Rosaria: It's hard not to notice you when I'm on duty every day.
 Scarlett: Alright, in that case, I'll admit it. I was the person who slipped this prophecy into the storybook.
 Collei: Huh? But why? Then... does that mean... this wasn't a real prophecy after all?
 Scarlett: Don't worry. Even though you probably have plenty of reservations about me, you can be sure that the prophecy is genuine.
 Scarlett: In fact, many of you here today may have heard the codename of the one who left the prophecy to me.
 Scarlett: She hailed from an ancient assembly of powerful women, each of whom used a single letter to signify themselves.
 Mona: Who would've guessed... It seems that power was indeed left behind by the old hag after all...
 Scarlett: Ah, so you're B's student. It's an honor to meet you. I am Scarlett, the successor of J.
 Sucrose: Wh—What are you talking about?
 Scarlett: It's a long story, but I'm not quite sure that I'm the best person to tell it.
 Scarlett: Since you've all spent so much time and energy trying to decipher this prophecy, you must also be very interested in the secret behind this lantern, no?
 Scarlett: The lantern has already been lit. Now then... "Please allow me to disturb your happy peace."
 ???: ...Huh? Why did this little thing just light up? How strange...
 Scarlett: Hello? On the other side of the lantern... can you hear me over there?
 Klee: Mom?
 ???: Hmm? Oh, I hear many youthful voices...
 Scarlett: Madam, I am Scarlett, the successor of J.
 ???: Oh, ahem! Since we've last gathered, J's successor has already become so reckless and bold. Unbelievable...
 Mona: Wait wait wait, why are you talking just like the old hag!?
 ???: Old hag? Who would dare say that... Is that Mona?
 Mona: Who are you! Who dares imitate my master!?
 ???: Ahem... Hmph, and what of imitation and mimicry? It has always been a fool's errand to mimic and learn from humanity...
 Albedo: Aunt Alice. I'm here too.
 Klee: Moooom! Why are you trying to talk like other people?
 ???: Hehehe... so I see everyone's here. Well then, my warmest greetings, everyone!
 Mona: Miss Alice, why would you...
 Alice: Well, it's been many years since this Lantern last lit up! You can't blame me for thinking that one of the old friends from my youth may have decided to catch up again...

 Alice: If one day, you would be unfortunate enough to run into a truly dangerous situation, she may use her voice to guide the way forward for you.
 Mona: Who would have guessed that there are so many mysterious women in this world, and that they would all know each other...
 Alice: The "one who would never lie" is... me. I hope no one would take offense — it's just that I, Alice, or "A" for short, have always had a soft spot for those with sincerity and candor.
 Alice: As for "a legend that never ends"... You may not know M in person, but you've likely encountered one of her works. Have any of you ever read "The Boar Princess"?
 Sucrose: Huh? I'm pretty sure every child in Mondstadt has read that book.
 Alice: Hehe, it's also one of my favorite stories. M was an exceptional human writer who used her prose to teach me the meaning of grief.
 Alice: Don't you think such a person would deserve a seat at the mages' table?
 Paimon: Paimon's getting more and more lost...
 Scarlett: It may sound hard to believe, but I can attest to everything that Alice has said. J was also a mortal who aged and passed on, leaving her title to her students and followers.
 Scarlett: Alice... You've never acknowledged any of J's successors. It's now been centuries since the first of us took on her mantle. I've always wanted to meet you.
 Alice: Do you also want to become a mage?
 Scarlett: Title aside, I think I'm more interested in the meaning and purpose of the Hexenzirkel.
 Scarlett: I used to think that the Hexenzirkel was a group of women who could control the very fate of this world. But now... I've seen for myself that besides J, many other ordinary people were also among you.
 Alice: Do you think less of us now?
 Scarlett: No, not at all. My interest has been piqued, and I'm now even more drawn towards the idea of becoming a mage.
 Alice: You're right, I've never acknowledged any of J's successors, but you are different. You are much more fascinating than any of your predecessors.
 Albedo: Oh, has someone finally piqued Aunt Alice's interest?
 Alice: Now is not a good time, Scarlett, but as soon as I am able, I will seek you out for a meeting. I want you to tell me all about J's married life back in her hometown.
 Paimon: So, the mage who received the prophecy letter from all of you was J? She left the Hexenzirkel after getting married?
 Alice: Precisely. There was only one way the letter could have been interpreted. She would have known what we meant as soon as she saw the message. We were just asking one thing of her...
 Alice: "Please come to see us again. Before you go and settle forever with your happiness, please come share some of it with your best friends and sisters."
 Collei: So, the "supreme blessing" actually meant...
 Alice: All journeys are fleeting, and will eventually come to an end. What will give us the most fulfillment and happiness in the end are those who will greet us at our journey's destination.
 Alice: Dear child, I believe you can also understand what I am talking about. We women will always have many troubles, and encounter pains and frustrations that will keep us up at night.
 Alice: But no matter how hard things may become, we will cross mountains and oceans to see our best friends again... Regardless of how many years have passed, or how far the distance may be...
 Alice: As long as we can be with our beloved friends, our hearts will be filled with joy. To us mages, that's what being "supremely blessed" is all about.
 Collei: ...
 Klee: Uh, I still don't really get it, but I do know that all the mages are Mom's best friends!
 Alice: Hehehe... If you ask how I see it, the Hexenzirkel is just a group of ladies that I spent my youth with.
 Alice: Anyway, I'll introduce some of the other members to you all later. I still have a few things to attend to, so this will have to do for today.
 Klee: Bye, Mom! Dodoco says bye too!
 Alice: Goodbye, darling! And farewell to all of our other friends as well. I'm sure we'll see each other again.
 Alice: Ah, now that I think of it, isn't it getting close to... that time of year?
 Mona: Yes, it's Windblume again, Alice.
 Scarlett: It's also a special anniversary date. I'm sure you still remember...
 Alice: Yes, I do remember now. It was on this day, many, many years ago, that J tied the knot.
 Alice: Ah, just in time for the festival of love and freedom. Everyone, please enjoy this year's Windblume festival to the fullest.

 Ying'er: You said you couldn't come to pick me up because of a very important matter, right? Well then, of course I had to come and find you instead.
 Paimon: Hehe... should we go see how they're doing?
 Mona: I wouldn't. You'll get hit by a forest boar if you interrupt a couple's romantic conversation.
 Paimon: Oh really? Uh, we'll just leave them alone then.
(Traveler): (They look quite happy... Maybe that's what Windblume's all about.)

(Talk to Mona or Klee by the Statue of The Seven in Starfell Lake)
 Klee: Mona, look! I found a four-leaf clover. It's so pretty; do you like it?
 Mona: Huh? Is it for me? Thank you, Klee!
 Klee: Um, could you also say something nice to Klee?
 Mona: Oh, of course! Ahem. I've actually gotten really good at this! Hmm...
 Mona: O Miss Klee, our mighty Spark Knight, you are the flame of hope for all of Mondstadt, and the vessel for...
 Klee: Huh? What's a vessel?
 Mona: Oh no, Klee doesn't seem to really appreciate this kind of praise. Okay, then...
 Mona: Klee, you're super adorable, and your hat and backpack are the cutest! Did your mom get them for you?
 Klee: Yep! Mom said that she picked them out with Dodoco, and Dodoco really loves this backpack, too! Which is why Dodoco's always hanging from the side!
 Klee: Mom also said that someone else was also helping her pick out the gifts that day... Hmm, what was the name again ...
 Klee: Ah, if Klee remembers correctly, people would call her... the old hag.
 Mona: Wait, the old hag!? ...Huh, okay, now that you mention it, the old hag does have a fondness for picking out hats...

 Charlotte: Here we are! Wait here a moment, I'll go hand over the cash.
 Paimon: Huh? Oh, so it's...
 Mona: Who is it? Can I help you? ...Oh, (Traveler) and Paimon, what brings you here? And... I'm sorry, I don't believe we've...
 Charlotte: You must be Mona Megistus, the Astrologist. It's an honor to finally meet you.
 Charlotte: I'm Charlotte, a reporter from The Steambird. Your columns have been so well-received by our readers lately that our management asked me to present you with this cash bonus.
 Paimon: She got Mona's full name and title right on her first try... She really does do her homework!
 Mona: Ah, you must be Charlotte? Welcome, welcome... Please, just call me Mona. Gosh, this is a long way to come from Fontaine. I hope it wasn't too much trouble...
 Charlotte: No trouble at all. It was on the way.
 Paimon: Wow, sounds like your articles are a real hit with readers all over Teyvat, Mona!
 Mona: Hmm? Have I never told you? I've been writing my column "All Things Astrological" for The Steambird for a long time now.
 Mona: The chief editor wrote to me a while ago about the bonus. Thank goodness it's finally here, I was wondering when it would arrive. Thank you, Charlotte...
 Charlotte: Huh, you make it sound like you really needed this... Are you pressed for money, Mona?
 Mona: What? No, of course not! It's just that once I knew the bonus was coming, I re-allocated some funds that I'd previously set aside for daily necessities, and purchased some expensive equipment... That's all.
 Paimon: Hehe, classic Mona...
 Charlotte: Aha, perfect! "Renowned Astrologist Broke and Starving — Do the Stars Really Have All the Answers?" ...The article practically writes itself!
Icon Dialogue Talk Actually, that does sound like an interesting read.
 Mona: ...Aw! I beg your pardon!?
Icon Dialogue Talk Sounds a little exaggerated, don't you think?
 Paimon: Mona's actually super rich — it's just that astrology research is really expensive.
 Mona: "Super rich" is a bit of a stretch... Ugh, anyway, enough about that. What brings you back to Mondstadt this time, (Traveler) and Paimon?
 Paimon: Originally, we just came to catch up with a friend of ours... but some things have come up, and now we're helping Charlotte investigate the case of the Card Snatcher.
 Charlotte: Speaking of which, will you be competing in the King of Invokations Grand Prix? Word is that the prizes are pretty stellar.
 Mona: I'm much too busy with my research these days to dedicate time to a competition. Besides, even if I did enter, there's no guarantee I'd actually win a prize, is there?
 Charlotte: Isn't there? I'd have thought you'd be certain to win with astrology on your side. You'd know all of your opponents' cards ahead of time.
 Mona: What do you take me for? No self-respecting astrologist would dream of abusing their beloved art for such crude purposes. Besides, it wouldn't be fair to the other contestants.
 Charlotte: Well said. Spoken like an accomplished academic and a conscientious citizen.
 Mona: Well yes, obviously. Anyway, if past precedent is anything to go by, you're the ones who ought to be wary of what's around the corner. Especially if you're chasing after this... Card Snatcher, was it? Sounds like bad news — shall I take a glance at what you're up against?
 Charlotte: Thanks for the offer, but there's no need. Relying on your astrological skills for all the juicy details would make this story a Mona-exclusive... but that's not quite the kind of exclusive report I'm going for here.
 Charlotte: But don't you worry — they call it "investigative journalism" for a reason... We journos have our ways!
 Mona: Alright. Well, best of luck with your investigation then. Thanks again for bringing the bonus, Charlotte. Do give my regards to the chief editor.
Icon Dialogue Talk Take care of yourself, Mona...
Icon Dialogue Talk ...Also, we should play another game of Genius Invokation TCG sometime!
 Mona: I will — and yes, we should. I'll hold you to that.
 Charlotte: I think it's about time we started heading to the competition venue. The Mondstadt regional final should be starting shortly.
 Paimon: Alright! Paimon can't wait to find out who the finalists are.